The goal of this page is to let wiki users create internationalized versions of Electrum.
To generate language files from this page, use the 'mki18n.py' script distributed with Electrum

* Active Servers
* Address
* Amount
* Description
* Do you want to create a new wallet, or to restore an existing one?
* Equivalently, your wallet seed can be stored and recovered with the following mnemonic code
* Error
* Fee
* Fee per tx. input
* Freeze
* Gap limit
* Here are the settings of your wallet.
* History
	* de:Auszug
	* fr:Historique
* I cannot decode this
* Incorrect Password
* Invalid Address
* Invalid Amount
* Invalid Bitcoin Address
* Invalid Fee
* Invalid Password
* Invalid value
* Label
* Leave these fields empty if you want to disable encryption.
* Message
* New
* New Contact
* New Password
* No seed
* No transactions found for this seed
* Not connected
* Not enough funds
* OK
* Password
* Passwords do not match
* Pay to
* Payment sent.
* Please choose a password to encrypt your wallet keys.
* Please choose a server.
* Please enter your password
* Please enter your wallet seed or the corresponding mnemonic list of words, and the gap limit of your wallet.
* Please keep it in a safe place; if you lose it, you will not be able to restore your wallet.
* Protocol:
* QR
* QR code saved to file
* Receive
	* de:Empfangen
	* fr:Recevoir
* Save
* Seed
* Seed or mnemonic
* Send
	* de:Senden
	* fr:Envoyer
* Server not ready
* Synchronizing...
* To disable wallet encryption, enter an empty new password.
* Transaction Details
* Tx
* Unfreeze
* View as QR Code
* Wall
* Wallet file not found.
* Your wallet generation seed is
* Your wallet is encrypted. Use this dialog to change your password.
* Your wallet keys are not encrypted
* Zeros displayed after decimal point
