What is "Isolated" wallet security? Is this some Android thing? --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 00:15, 10 July 2012 (GMT)

> Isolated means that the private keys cannot be accessed by other (potentially malicious) apps, because they are stored in app-private storage. --[Goonie](User:Goonie) ([[talk|User_talk:Goonie]]) 00:02, 20 January 2013 (GMT)


What are Multi-user and Multi-wallet meant for? Shouldn't Bitcoin Core and bitcoind have the same for Multi User? [Newar](User:Newar) ([[talk|User_talk:Newar]]) 09:16, 28 January 2015 (UTC)

## Orientation

Eventually there will be too many clients and the table will be too wide, so I recommend having clients on the left and features on the top. If there are too many features, break it up into multiple tables. This is how Wikipedia usually does "Comparison of *x*" articles. [theymos](User:Theymos) ([[talk|User_talk:Theymos]]) 00:30, 10 July 2012 (GMT)

> I went ahead and did this, looks much better imho and I agree re: putting additional criteria in extra tables. --[Justmoon](User:Justmoon) ([[talk|User_talk:Justmoon]]) 09:19, 2 August 2012 (GMT)

## Ordering

I don't like using alphabetization here because it can be easily gamed. How about ordering by popularity using user-agent stats, and resolving ties using maturity? [theymos](User:Theymos) ([[talk|User_talk:Theymos]]) 02:05, 10 July 2012 (GMT)

> I suggested this on the mailing list, but everyone else who commented preferred alphabetical ordering. Wikipedia also seems to be using alphabetical order for such lists. I think it makes sense to the extent that user statistics will likely be hard to collect and hard to compare. I think this will only get more difficult as clients get more diverse, forming subnetworks etc. --[Justmoon](User:Justmoon) ([[talk|User_talk:Justmoon]]) 07:44, 2 August 2012 (GMT)
