## Don't keep your computer switched on overnight.

Could you please elaborate on "Don't keep your computer switched on overnight.". Mining is a common case for bitcoiners to leave on their pc over night.
Was the idea to not leave on the work pc where the "cleaning lady" might gain access?
-- [Giszmo](User:Giszmo) 14:42, 28 June 2011 (GMT)
>  Yes, also you are giving targeted attackers a lot of time to try out different ways to get into your system. --[Forever](User:Forever) 07:43, 29 June 2011 (GMT)
>  Huh?? So your worry is that the PC is online +30% increasing the risk by 30%? Sorry but I would remove that point or change it to "Don't allow physical access to strangers." and "Don't plug in any devices of doubtful origin.". If your system is well protected, time should not be an issue. (Maybe an inspiration: I know a guy who had a trigger at his server room door so whenever the door opened you had 60s to unlock the screen and stop the fully encrypted pc from shutting down. A camera was taping who entered the room to the pc's disc so he could check if it was the cleaning lady or strangers.)  --[Giszmo](User:Giszmo) 10:55, 29 June 2011 (GMT)
>  Isn't the amount of uninterrupted time your computer is online also security issue? As for devices, that's another good Don't. I'm going to add it. --[Forever](User:Forever) 06:36, 1 July 2011 (GMT)


##Seems like the moral police is hard at work

This guide was actually advising people NOT to install pirated software.  I don't see how this "condones" it in any way.  The debate about the morality of software piracy should be irrelevant here.  This is supposed to be a practical guide, and it is an unfortunate/fortunate (delete as appropriate to your ideological camp) fact of life that a significant proportion of computer users install *some* pirated software at *some* stage in their lives.  It is also a fact of life that pirated software is a popular vector for viruses.  Acknowledging this fact is no more an endorsement of piracy than it's an endorsement of illegal drugs when a hospital questions a patient about their illegal drug habits prior to performing an operation. --[Forever](User:Forever) 21:13, 5 November 2011 (GMT)
