[[!template id=source These are emails between [[Dustin Trammel]] (aka Druid) and [[Satoshi Nakamoto]], released by Druid in November 2013. When Satoshi opened [[BitcoinTalk]] in late 2009, it made an older forum obsolete; its contents are now lost. These emails are some of the very limited context of Satoshi's conversations and the [[block chain]] from that year.]]
##From dtrammell@dustintrammell.com Sun Jan 11 23:14:04 2009
On Fri, 2009-01-09 at 03:27 +0800, Satoshi Nakamoto wrote:<br/>
> Announcing the first release of Bitcoin, a new electronic cash<br/>
> system that uses a peer-to-peer network to prevent double-spending.<br/>
> It's completely decentralized with no server or central authority.

I'm currently reading through your paper.  At the timestamp server<br/>
section you mention newspapers and usenet, so I thought you might be<br/>
interested in this if you have not seen it already:

http://www.publictimestamp.org/

By the way, I'm also currently running the alpha code on one of my<br/>
workstations.  So far it has two "Generated" messages, however the<br/>
"Credit" field for those is 0.00 and the balance hasn't changed.  Is<br/>
this due to the age/maturity requirement for a coin to be valid?

Cheers,

Dustin D. Trammell<br/>
dtrammell@dustintrammell.com<br/>
http://www.dustintrammell.com

##From satoshi@vistomail.com Mon Jan 12 18:52:45 2009
> I'm currently reading through your paper.  At the timestamp server<br/>
> section you mention newspapers and usenet, so I thought you might be<br/>
> interested in this if you have not seen it already:<br/>
><br/>
> http://www.publictimestamp.org/

Thanks, I hadn't seen that yet.  It looks very well presented.<br/>
There was an older one that's been running for a long time that<br/>
publishes its hashes to Usenet.  I'm surprised this one isn't<br/>
using Usenet, although it is kind of difficult to get access to<br/>
post to Usenet in an automated way these days.  If they can get a<br/>
magazine or newspaper to publish their hashes, it would work a lot<br/>
easier in court for their purposes.  Bitcoin and all timestamp<br/>
servers share the basic functionality of periodically collecting<br/>
things into blocks and hashing them into a chain.


> By the way, I'm also currently running the alpha code on one of my<br/>
> workstations.  So far it has two "Generated" messages, however the<br/>
> "Credit" field for those is 0.00 and the balance hasn't changed.  Is<br/>
> this due to the age/maturity requirement for a coin to be valid?<br/>

Right, the credit field stays 0.00 until it matures, then it'll be<br/>
50.00.  Do you think it would be clearer if I left the credit<br/>
field blank until it matures?  I should put some text in the<br/>
transaction details (when you double click on it) explaining how<br/>
it works.  (was it obvious you can doubleclick on a line for<br/>
details?)

Be sure to upgrade to v0.1.3 if you haven't already.  This version<br/>
has really stabilized things.

Satoshi
