## Scam accusation
It would be nice, if you enable editing this page, because Bitcoin Fog scammed a lot of people. [[!template id=unsigned Pampa 20:19, 5 March 2015‎ (UTC)]]
> Changes can be made [here](Bitcoin:ContentPages/Bitcoin_Fog). The links are locked, not the content of the page. I think we should ban mixing services from the wiki anyways; they're 99% fraud and pretty useless.
> This page links to a phishing site. The first link is to bitcoinfog.CO. The real site is .COM. [[!template id=unsigned Joshhern 23:08, 6 March 2015‎ (UTC)]]
> That was done [here](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=Bitcoin%3AContentPages%2FBitcoin_Fog&action=historysubmit&diff=53914&oldid=51146)... The perpetrator had inserted other undetected fraudulent links, too. Mixing services on the wiki have been causing a lot of drama. I'm going to propose we ban them from the wiki (the links, at least). Mixers are completely arbitrary and useless except as a placebo anyway, and almost all of them are scams. Thank you for pointing this link out. Both will be removed. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 23:19, 6 March 2015 (UTC)

## Related thread
[Related thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=713095.0) --[Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 19:23, 14 August 2014 (UTC)

## Protecting links

In order to prevent the insertion of malicious or fraudulent links onto this page, I will be locking the page. It can still be edited at [[Bitcoin:ContentPages/Bitcoin_Fog]]. This is so that users can contribute information without being able to tamper with the links. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 15:49, 14 September 2014 (UTC)
