The order / grouping of these coins are still TBD.

##suggestion not to include market cap
market cap changes too often, no point in adding that data to the wiki. Can just link to coinmarketcap or whatever.
[Nanotube](User:Nanotube) ([[talk|User_talk:Nanotube]]) 22:44, 7 April 2014 (UTC)

[Ripper234](User:Ripper234) proposes a grouping of Major, Minor and New by an arbitrary market cap limit. This can be done once the market caps of the alts are known.

* Using market cap will make Tonal Bitcoin a "Major" despite de facto minor usage. Therefore, I suggest finding a different method of categorizing. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 05:06, 4 March 2013 (GMT)

I have removed all market cap values. Nevertheless, I have ordered the list in two groups: Top 10 by market cap (according to http://coinmarketcap.com/), and the rest ordered alphabetical. I think that this is the best compromise. The "new" category was so old as to be laughable, as every day there are new coins being created. I don't think that it is in our best interest to have a definitive list of all crytpocurrencies, as there are now hundreds, and soon thousands. [Lunokhod](User:Lunokhod) ([[talk|User_talk:Lunokhod]]) 09:49, 20 August 2014 (UTC)

##Removed Tonal bitcoin

I have removed [[Tonal_Bitcoin]] (TBC) from the list because it is not an alternative currency, it has no market cap, it can not be traded, and it is not accepted for payments anywhere. As far as I can tell, tonal bitcoin is just a way of representing bitcoin amounts using the tonal number system. If this is true, it is part of bitcoin, and is thus not a separate currency. This should be discussed elsewhere in this wiki, not here [Lunokhod](User:Lunokhod) ([[talk|User_talk:Lunokhod]]) 09:49, 20 August 2014 (UTC)

* It is an alternative currency, and one of the few legit ones. It shares a market cap with BTC, and can be traded just like any other currency. Sharing a blockchain, or at least values, with BTC is the ideal for altcoins, and necessary to protect against scammer abuses. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 11:49, 20 August 2014 (UTC)
