Here is a thread with lots of users saying its working. I know its a darknet market forum but its all legit users with 17 pages of posts in the thread.

http://silkroad5v7dywlc.onion/index.php?topic=32926.0 [[!template id=unsigned Bitblender 15:53, 31 August 2014‎ (UTC)]]
> Anything on BitcoinTalk? [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 21:01, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
> As of yet there's exactly zero evidence that you're not running a con. You may recreate this page after we see some testimonials from established BitcoinTalk members. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 15:54, 14 September 2014 (UTC)

> Unfortunately there are not any posts on bitcointalk.org except users with 1 post. I can write the same as you wrote but the opposite, as of yet there's exactly zero evidence that I'm running a con, and it is as true as your sentence. If i was a scam, then there would be at least one person reporting on it after running the service for 9 months? Why is a 17 pages long thread with only positive feedback not trustworthy? There are more threads but its all on forums on Tor, no one is saying its a scam, search the internet and look for anyone saying i stole any bitcoins or that the mixer doesn't properly mix the coins and leave 0 taint? Here are some more examples on different forums with different established users discussing Bitcoin Blender in different contexts:
> http://lacbzxobeprssrfx.onion/index.php/topic,19583
> http://lacbzxobeprssrfx.onion/index.php/topic,5042
> http://thehub7dnl5nmcz5.onion/index.php?topic=2015
> http://thehub7dnl5nmcz5.onion/index.php?topic=2047
> http://silkroad5v7dywlc.onion/index.php?topic=50868.0

> There is no way i could fake this?
> http://silkroad5v7dywlc.onion/index.php?topic=32926.0

> I hope someone knowledgeable would post on bitcointalk.org that they are using/used Bitcoin Blender eventually, it should have happened after running the service for 9 months without any problems, but it has unfortunately not happened yet. I am trying to point traffic to that bitcointalk.org thread by having a link to it from my site for using as discussion but its mostly darknet users so they cant post on bitcointalk.org.

> Why am i suddenly being treated as guilty after the page has been up here for 8 months without any scam reports or problems? I have announced my service in the best way I can, without spam or lying, i even my self had the "Caution: This service is operating anonymously. Use at your own discretion." message on the page, would a scammer put that on?

> [[!template id=unsigned Bitblender 22:03, 15 September 2014‎ (UTC)]]
> I'm not calling you a scammer here; I just don't have any proof that you're not. While it is also true that I have no proof that you *are*, I'd like to be careful. The number of bitcoin mixer scams that have been left unchecked on this wiki is nearly heartbreaking. I've helplessly watched as people lost large portions of their hard earned savings, and I want to do my best to assure that it doesn't happen to anyone else. I would suggest asking your returning users to post to your BitcoinTalk thread (assuming they are at least full members). I will then reinstate the page and protect the links section to prevent fraudsters from trying to impersonate you. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 16:36, 16 September 2014 (UTC)
> Ok thats fair I guess, can we keep this open until someone writes on tbe BitcoinTalk thread?
> It should happen eventually as I link to it from my site, just might take some time as there is almost no point in writing anything when everything is working... Lets wait some months and i will reply here when it happens. [[!template id=unsigned Bitblender 19:01, 18 September 2014‎ (UTC)]]
> As you may know, I didn't delete the page, I just redirected it here. So, don't worry, it can be reinstated instantly. Perhaps you could incentivize testimonials? This, on top of getting a quicker response, could really help get your name out there. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 20:31, 18 September 2014 (UTC)
Hi,
This has been a while, i have at least got one reply now on the bitcointalk.org thread from someone with more than 1 posts, https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=436467.msg12265870#msg12265870

Is this good enough to remove the redirect and protect the link?
