[[!template id=archive Talk:Mining hardware comparison]]__TOC__
## ASIC section

I want the ASIC section in here. It's very interesting and informative, and we can put a note there, that this is preliminary data. darsie
>  @darsie, I don't think it is a good idea to put ASIC data here, as the data itself is pretty much "vaporware". I would prefer to have a separate page with expected ASIC data and on this page just a link to the expected data page. Things will change dramatically once ***real*** ASIC's become available ***and*** someone was able to test it. To compare: we have also no information for "future" developments of graphic cards although their roadmaps and data is already available. [Lowflyer](User:Lowflyer) ([[talk|User_talk:Lowflyer]]) 10:07, 2 January 2013 (GMT)

## GenBTC's Card Comparison Spreadsheet

Anyone else find this redundant/useless? --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 04:30, 26 February 2013 (GMT)

Not so much as redundant, but horrifically misleading.  I have developed a spreadsheet that makes predictions of eventual profitability based on extrapolation of difficulty into the far distant future.  For example, if you're planning to buy a mining rig that won't get delivered for 6 months, you can get a reasonable prediction of the eventual payback on your investment based on the predicted evolution of difficulty.  Please update here and I'll post it if there is interest.  This is not so much targeted at GPU miners as it is at ASIC mining hardware. [TominTX](User:TominTX) ([[talk|User_talk:TominTX]]) 20:34, 1 September 2013 (GMT)
