The description of bitcoin is similiar to wikipedia article.--[Kiba](User:Kiba) 19:53, 16 December 2010 (GMT)
>  It seems that the beginning of the introduction was made by Grondilu (french guy who sometimes comes on irc and auctions gold on the forum), see [(1)](http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bitcoin&diff=402269158&oldid=402260422). Since most of the bitcoin article on wikipedia was put together by the bitcoin community, it shouldn't be too difficult to have them accept publication here. In the meantime I see no harm keeping this for a few days, until we either get explicit authorization, or rewrite it into something more personnal. [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 21:47, 16 December 2010 (GMT)
>  In the meantime I have added a "wikipedia" source, thru adhering with the wikipedia CC by-sa license. [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 21:49, 16 December 2010 (GMT)
> Authorisation isn't needed. We're complying with the Wikipedia license by sourcing their work. Shouldn't matter. [Genjix](User:Genjix) 03:31, 19 December 2010 (GMT)

I don't like  "the idea of using digital files as money" -- maybe "the idea of using digital information as money" ?  'files' has too specific a meaning in the computer context. Then again, most dollars and euros and other conventional currency are nothing but accounting entries in various databases.--[Gavin Andresen](User:Gavinandresen) 16:20, 22 December 2010 (GMT)
>  Maybe using with "bits of data"? (it's BITcoin after all). Anyway "files" doesn't seem appropriate... [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 12:25, 23 December 2010 (GMT)
> "bits of data" sounds equally weird. I changed it to information. However, is it really information? Information is supposed to be human-readable quantitative data, whereas data is the raw stream... It doesn't fit data or information as it's a solution to a mathematical operation. We could write "the idea of using computed solutions to mathematical problems as money". [Genjix](User:Genjix) 16:38, 23 December 2010 (GMT)
> Ok, on second thought, I changed it. [Genjix](User:Genjix) 16:39, 23 December 2010 (GMT)

## Header capitalisation

Please refrain from using Initial Caps in your titles. Use One initial cap; it's the style in current usage.
For names such as Bitcoin Market, capitalise each letter of the word only for that name
e.g "How to use Bitcoin Market".[Genjix](User:Genjix) 07:23, 30 December 2010 (GMT)
> Lets stick to the [Wikipedia style guide](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Naming_conventions_(capitalization)). [Genjix](User:Genjix) 21:07, 9 January 2011 (GMT)

## Fonts for source code

MT, can you make the fonts bigger? I can hardly see the fonts for the &lt;source&gt; snippets. Thanks. [Genjix](User:Genjix) 07:23, 30 December 2010 (GMT)
>  For the source snippets, this can be done by editing [[MediaWiki:Geshi.css]] I guess, use the discussion page there [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 14:59, 31 December 2010 (GMT)
> Thanks. I didn't know about that- well you've sorted it now anyway ;) [Genjix](User:Genjix) 21:09, 9 January 2011 (GMT)

##Further Languages

There now are wiki URLs here for two languages in addition to English.  How do bitcoin wikis for additional languages get started?   For example, there are a number of bitcoin users whose primary language is spanish.  Bitcoin has a number of German language readers too ... for example [[http://www.go-bitcoin.com_Go-Bitcoin]]. [[User:sgornick]] 18:01, 8 February 2011 (GMT)
>  Those informations are available on the [[Bitcoin.it_Wiki]] page. [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 08:30, 16 February 2011 (GMT)

## Recent Changes showing New Users

Would an administrator please remove new users from the recent changes? It generally clogs it up and isn't helpful for editors. Thanks! --<span style="text-shadow:orange 0px 0px 3px;"><font color="#FF6600"><tt><big><u>****</u></big></tt></font>[Firestorm](User:Firestorm)</span> 05:10, 26 May 2011 (GMT)

## Contents of "Topic central"
I suggest adding "services". [Phelix](User:Phelix) 12:30, 15 September 2011 (GMT)

This link should be displayed more prominently. Maybe something like: "spend coins". Also "trade" is very misleading because it is easy to think of trading bitcoins on an exchange but not buying goods and services.
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade

## Protect main page

The main page is the perfect opportunity for vandalism. Although having it unprotected allows anyone to improve it (which is uncommon), the risk is too great when the edit could just be done by an administrator. [X](User:X) 11:27, 7 January 2012 (GMT)
