Any reason the 'bitcoin first' page is separate from the older History page?

Ya, probably so that the History page was more specific to bitcoin, but firsts was for trivia and only true firsts.

Like maybe going to v0.6 release is enough to make it into the History, but not something that would go into firsts.
At the same time, the first food truck to start using bitcoin might be something suitable for the Firsts page but would be extraneous in the Bitcoin History page. [[!template id=unsigned Sgornick 08:31, 30 March 2012]]

## Adult entertainers video

Video has been removed from Youtube due to TOS violation. I change the link to the original subreddit where it all began and entertainers in general started accepting Bitcoin. [[!template id=unsigned JulianTosh 20:05, 5 April 2012‎]]

## Many, if not most things missing
Many ideas and actions deserve being mentioned and the first to do it deserves to be mentioned here I think. There would be room for mentioning others as super tiny references like  (3.1) (3.2) (3.3). 5 minutes of brain storming:

* first implementation of an exchange (otc?)
* first floating exchange (MtGox?)
* first free bitcoins site (faucet?)
* first facebook wallet
* first margin trading
* first betting site
* first auction site
* first firstbits site
* first live monitor of an exchange
* first day with more than x transactions
* first day with trade volume > x USD
* first mobile wallet
* first iPhone/android/blackberry/... wallet
* first hosted wallet
* first hosted wallet without registration (instawallet?)
* first brain wallet site
* …

3.1: alternative 1  
3.2: alternative 2  
3.3: alternative 3

--[Giszmo](User:Giszmo) ([[talk|User_talk:Giszmo]]) 15:16, 27 August 2012 (GMT)

## Format

Some "Firsts" are actually no "Firsts". I suggest to reword all to "First …" and remove those that fail to fit into this. "First trading day of blablabla exchange" is not a Bitcoin first for example. If the exchange is the most relevant one, there is definitely room for some "first exchange to trad $XXX in one day/week/month".
--[Giszmo](User:Giszmo) ([[talk|User_talk:Giszmo]]) 05:27, 16 November 2012 (GMT)

## First firearm for sale?
Yes, this is my own forum post, but I think it may be the [first firearm (legally) offered for sale via bitcoin](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=492.msg4421).
--[Aceat64](User:Aceat64) ([[talk|User_talk:Aceat64]]) 07:04, 15 April 2013 (GMT)
