Great idea! [Gavinandresen](User:Gavinandresen) (13:28, 19 December 2010 JST)

## typo correction

responsability -> responsibility.
i'd have done it myself but page is locked. :) [Nanotube](User:Nanotube) (02:24, 25 December 2010 JST)
> Fixed. [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) 18:18, 24 December 2010 (GMT)

based on the feedback their receive from users -> based on the feedback they receive from users
I'd also have fixed it if the page wasn't locked.  [Dooglus](User:Dooglus) 21:45, 14 January 2011 (GMT)

## Am I too late?

I added my "contributers award participant" today (1st of February), will I be eligible? [Ptd](User:Ptd) 20:00, 1 February 2011 (GMT)

## the price is applied for translators too?

hi, I'm [Shackra](User:Shackra) and i'm making the Spanish version of [en.bitcoin.it](http://en.bitcoint.it) in [es.bitcoin.it](http://es.bitcoin.it) and i don't know if the price is applied to for translators (not only for Spanish version) because without translate version of this wiki the bitcoin system cant be accepted by other people :-.

## Next Contributors Award: March 31st 2011

Are there any updates on this? [NilsB](User:NilsB) 05:58, 10 June 2011 (GMT)
<br />
Same question; also, how do I set up a "user page" so I can apply for the contest? --[Mondoman](User:Mondoman) 02:21, 16 June 2011 (GMT)

## Contributor Template

I think that Contributors Award applications should be a userbox, something like the below:
	<nowiki>{{User:Na7coldwater/Contributors_Award|BitcoinAddressHere}}</nowiki>
Which looks like this:
[[!template id=user:na7coldwater/contributors_award BitcoinAddressHere]]
<p style="clear:both">
I think this will look a lot nicer on userpages than the current method.

[Na7coldwater](User:Na7coldwater) 04:19, 26 October 2011 (GMT)
</p>
