A **Decentralized Autonomous Corporation** (**DAC**) is an "entity" without any central point of control, with a certain agenda, business plan, and protocol. A **Decentralized Application** or **DA** is an alternative formulation of a DAC. The concept is currently being developed by David Johnston.

There is an accelerating trend of more and more DACs being formed.

## List of DACs

* [[Bitcoin]] itself, the first DAC?
* Altcurrencies, all of Bitcoin forks
* [[Ripple]] Labs is borderline ... they are a registered company and could be ordered to shutdown. The protocol is perhaps a DAC.
* [[Mastercoin]], a DAC replacement for Forex, Shares, and much more. Later evolved into a ProtoShares competitor.
* [[ProtoShares]], a meta DAC with the purpose of provding infrastructure for other DACs. It is composed of
	* DomainShares, a DAC replacement for Namecoin
	* BitShares, a competitor to Mastercoin (with much more limited feature set IMHO)
	* Keyhotee, a DAC replacement for OpenID
	* Other infrastructure components to follow... ? 
* [[Mitosys]] - a DAC replacement for Bit-Message
* [[Colored_Coins]] are working on defining themselves as a DAC ... no working business model spotted yet.

## Ideas

* A social network - Monetizable Diaspora


## External links

* [Bitcoin Magazine: Bootstrapping a DAC](http://bitcoinmagazine.com/7050/bootstrapping-a-decentralized-autonomous-corporation-part-i/)
* [Topic on bitsharestalk](http://bitsharestalk.org/index.php?topic=297.0)
* [What is a DAC?](http://invictus-innovations.com/i-dac/)
* [The Three Laws of Robotics for DACs](http://invictus-innovations.com/i-dac-1/)

[[!template id=stub]]
