## Tor + Firefox

I recommend to start with the Vidalia Bundle.
There Tor comes with a graphical control centre + Tor button for Firefox. 
the Tor button is a plugin that allows you with 1 click to turn on/off the Tor routing for Firefox.

## Tor + Bitcoin

using Bitcoin with Tor is easy. All you need is to check the proxy option. The predefined values in Bitcoin match the Tor settings. As Bitcoin only saves from & to addresses (and no IP addresses), you should be pretty safe. Tor however does not fix the traceability of BTC from one address to other.

## Tor + IRC (mIRC)

This is worked for me on two different computers, drop me a message on Bitcoin forum if you need help.

## additional content?

some user started creating a tor page under his user space:
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/User:Sawzall/Tor

maybe there's some stuff you guys can pull in from there... 

also, xchat instructions for using over tor can be nice to have too. not everyone uses mirc, you know. :)

--[Nanotube](User:Nanotube) 05:39, 9 January 2011 (GMT)

## hidden services

rather than trying to keep a separate list of bitcoind as hidden services, it's probably better to link to the existing list of [[fallback_nodes]], which already has a few tor hidden services listed.

## Configuration tips

In torrc:
	CircuitBuildTimeout 30 #Picks faster nodes
	LearnCircuitBuildTimeout 0 #Enables the above setting
	MaxCircuitDirtiness 1200 #The number of seconds between each enforced IP change.
	#Increasing it can be good in some cases.
	WarnUnsafeSocks 0 #Tor doesn't like the way Bitcoin makes requests, and spams
	#the log about it. This stops that behavior.

* Privoxy is better than Polipo in every way. It has powerful privacy-assisting options (some disabled by default), and it can almost replace Torbutton on non-Firefox browsers. Firefox doesn't need Privoxy *or* Polipo because it can handle SOCKS5 natively.
* The most secure browser configuration is Firefox + Torbutton. You must use either Privoxy or Torbutton.
* Use standalone Tor, which outputs Tor's log to a console. *Nearly all problems can be quickly solved by looking at the log.*
* The official Vidalia bundles install two torrc files in different locations. One of these is useless. (Can't remember which one.)

Summary: The Tor bundles suck. [theymos](User:Theymos) 09:21, 9 January 2011 (GMT)
