The point of Bitcoin is that it is a decentralized peer to peer currency. 
That is the novelty about Bitcoin; the novelty is NOT that it comes along with a funky new way of counting things.
So please stop using Bitcoin to promote your own agenda ; this is just going to confuse people.
If you want to introduce a new method for counting currency, I suggest you go talk to the FED and propose the Tonal Dollar, or whatever.
[ThomasV](User:ThomasV) 14:33, 20 February 2011 (GMT)

* If Bitcoin has only one purpose, then it will never succeed. There are about as many people that care about a "decentralized peer to peer currency" as there are that care about Tonal. If you want BitCoin to succeed, you should support as many (legal) reasons to use it as possible. Also, whether it's ever enforced or not, vandalism and trolling should be bannable offenses. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) 04:43, 21 February 2011 (GMT)

This page should be deleted.
Nothing against Tonal, if there was a Hexadecimal Bitcoin or an Octal Bitcoin I would suggest those get deleted, too.

* Seconded. Tonal is not a key part of bitcoin, and currently not used in any form. If there is a reasonable number of users using tonal, then I would have no objections against this page. [Mqrius](User:Mqrius) 05:11, 2 February 2012 (GMT)

This is silly. I thought you'd removed this already, but it's seeping across to other pages despite me never seeing it in the wild. It serves only to confuse [Gigitrix](User:Gigitrix) 01:41, 13 June 2011 (GMT)

I agree with Gavin that this page should be deleted. Regardless of my personal opinion or the technical merits of tonal v. decimal, it's fair to say that tonal attracts scorn and ridicule from the vast majority of the population if they hear about it. Bitcoin's reputation suffers from the association. [ByteCoin](User:ByteCoin) 24 June 2011 (GMT)

* It's not fair to say that, no. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) 00:45, 25 June 2011 (GMT)

I have no legitimate stake in the matter, I made a few edits that I hope remove POV and still embrace the idea of Tonal Bitcoin. This is Raize, I am sorry I am not familiar enough with wiki editing to provide my signature.

##Voting about deleting page

I also think this page should be deleted. There are at least three people suggesting this now, so I will re-add the delete tag to the page. So far there seems to be only one objection to the delete. I will initiate voting on this talk page. --[Rebroad](User:Rebroad) 22:48, 20 March 2012 (GMT)

* **Delete** - I believe this tonal suggestion will only do harm to the bitcoin project, and so far the only person advocating it is luke-jr, who rarely gives any rational reasons that I nor anyone else AFAIK can understand. Sorry luke-jr, but I'm doing my best to get you to explain the benefits. --[Rebroad](User:Rebroad) 22:52, 20 March 2012 (GMT)
* **Delete** - I've been lurking for a while, but I registered after seeing this nonsense here. Clearly if luke-jr is simply (and rather immaturely) blanking the discussion rather than responding to the specific points he has few arguments to marshal in his favor. --[Zyzygy](User:Zyzygy) ([[talk|User_talk:Zyzygy]]) 05:14, 26 August 2012 (GMT)
* **Delete** along with all other references to this bullshit one man show in history, firsts and maybe other places. It serves no other thing than to Luke's ego. Why should the wiki as a whole support this? Apparently he realized that he can't win with arguments as he just deleted this very discussion. --[Giszmo](User:Giszmo) ([[talk|User_talk:Giszmo]]) 15:41, 27 August 2012 (GMT)
* **Delete** because:
1. nobody knows it - it seems that all sources are from one person [Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) and from 150 years old (!) book. There is no notability. Nobody after cares about it. There are no "tonal system community" or "people that are using tonal system" - tonal system uses just 1 person and he is trying to misappropriate Bitcoin for this
1. Tonal system is not at any way related to Bitcoin. Tonal system is related to numbers representation, not to monetary system. Please keep this page in general Wikipedia or some numeric Wikipedia, not in Bitcoin Wikipedia
1. Tonal units are very confusing - from technically point of view (font, writing it) and mainly there is very similar to decimal numbers - there are many cases in which is not clear which system is used. Also TBC is common typing error of BTC
> **Also I propose remove all notation about tonal from other wiki pages**, for example [[Units]] (very confusing), [[History]], [[Wallet_protocol]] or [[Vocabulary]], and prevent them from reverting back (as happened several times). At least until Luke-jr (or someone else) find notable cites to keeping it here. [Aleš Janda](User:Aleš Janda) ([[talk|User_talk:Aleš_Janda]]) 19:44, 27 August 2012 (GMT)


Luke-jr comment to voting: This is for discussion, not trolling. This is not an encyclopedia, and does not have any "notability" requirements. If you don't want to use Tonal, don't. Trolling is not acceptable.
