[10xbtc.com](http://10xbtc.com) is a Zero-Trust, better-than-provably fair lottery site based on public random numbers, it is a bet based lottery where the player's bets multiply by a factor if the numbers chosen by the player match the public random numbers drawn. This True Random Numbers (TRN) are provided by a certified, scientific and independent third party institution.

Moreover, [10xbtc.com](http://10xbtc.com) draws every 5 minutes, so players don't have to wait days or even hours to win the prizes, actual jackpots stands at 160 BTC, players only need to hit 3 numbers, each one from 0 to 49, prizes are paid even hitting one number only


##Gameplay (How to Play)

* Every 5 minutes 3 random numbers are drawn between 0 and 49.
* Every ticket has 4 different numbers that can be chosen between 0 to 49
* The minimum bet is 0.01 BTC
* The maximum bet is 1 BTC 
* If the ticket has all 3 winning numbers the bet multiplies by 100
* If the ticket has 2 winning numbers the bet multiplies by 10
* If the ticket has 1 winning number the bet multiplies by 4
* No registration required.

##Odds



|If the numbers on the ticket hits|The bet multiplies by|Maximum win |Minimum win
|---|---|---|---
|3 winning numbers |100X |100 BTC |1 BTC
|2 winning numbers |10X |10 BTC |0.1 BTC
|1 winning number |4X |4 BTC |0.04 BTC


##Public Random Number Generation

The winning numbers are chosen from the last 3 pairs of numbers of a public True Random Number Generator, as each of this pairs are numbers from 0 to 99, we divide them by 2 and round them to the lower number to match our 0 to 49 selection pool, for example, if one of the 3 pairs is 53, we divide it by 2, yielding 26.5 and round that number to 26. A True Random Number (TRN) is one that is created from a 'seed' or a numerical representation of a truly random natural phenomena. The only TRN generator available online that changes every 5 minutes is the TRN generator of a National Space Agency. This TRN is calculated from many space and environmental variables and although is intended to be used in scientific applications, it is free to use by everyone on the Internet, therefore we use it too. Check the page HERE to verify the number and learn about the generation of the random seed.

##Better than Provably Fair?

The Provably Fair system has been show to be susceptible to abuse recently, and many online gambling sites just states they use it when in fact they not. But most importantly, Provably Fair is obscure to the plain user and does not clearly show the user how the random seed is fair. In this regard, nothing beats an independent, 3rd party generated True Random Number that anyone can read and check instantly without any previous mathematical or cryptograpical knowledge. 

##More Detail

[10xbtc.com](http://10xbtc.com) is described in-depth on the [10xbtc.com FAQ](http://10xbtc.com/en/faq) page.

##External Links

* [10xbtc.com](http://10xbtc.com) website
* [Reviews of 10xbtc.com at bittrust.org](http://bittrust.org/10xbtc-lottery#reviews) Reviews

##References



[[!tag "Gambling"]]
