<noinclude>[[!template id=year]][[!template id=infobox_year year=2010 firstblock=32490 blocks= supply=1,624,500 mining= startdifficulty=1.18 enddifficulty=14,484 blockreward="50 BTC"]]**2010** was the year after the year of [[Bitcoin]]'s launch.__TOC__
##Events</noinclude>
###February

* 06 – [[Bitcoin_Market]], the first [[exchange]], is launched.
###May

* 22 – [[Laszlo_Hanyecz]], a GPU miner, makes the [[first documented purchase of a good in exchange for bitcoins|Laszlo_Hanyecz#Pizza]]; two pizzas for 10,000 BTC.
###July

* 07 – Bitcoin v0.3 is released.
* 11 – News of the latest release propagates to Slashdot, causing a large influx of bitcoin users.
* 12 – Bitcoin value begins rising rapidly, going from $0.008 to $0.08 over the next five days.
* 17 – [[Mt._Gox]] is established.
* 18 – ArtForz becomes one of the earliest GPU miners.
###August

* 15 – 184 billion bitcoins are [[created artificially|CVE-2010-5139]] in block 74638. 53 blocks into a chain fork, the updated chain overtakes the erroneous one and the fraudulent bitcoins cease to exist.
###September

* 14 – Block 79764 is the first to be solved with split allocation of the block reward.
* 18 – [[Jeff_Garzik]] pays [[puddinpop]] 10,000 BTC (~$625) to make their Windows-based CUDA client open source.
* 29 – [[kermit]] discovers a glitch that prevents transactions referencing small outputs from being confirmed.
###October

* 01 – The [[first public OpenCL miner|poclbm]] is released.
* 07 – The exchange rate begins rising again, from $0.06.
* 16 – The earliest documented escrowed transaction occurs between [[nanotube]] and [[Diablo-D3]], with [[Theymos]] as the escrow.
* 28 – The earliest documented short sale occurs between [[nanotube]] and [[kiba]].
###November

* 06 – The market capitalization reaches $1,000,000 as the exchange rate passes $0.50.
###December

* 07 – [[ribuck]] sends 0.42 BTC to [[doublec]] in the first mobile-to-mobile transaction.
* 09 – [[Difficulty]] surpasses 10,000.
* 09 – The earliest documented sale of a call option contract occurs between [[nanotube]] and [[sgornick]].
* 13 – [[Satoshi_Nakamoto]] logs out of [[BitcoinTalk]] for the last time.
* 15 – The [[Bitcoin_Wiki]] is reestablished by [[Mark_Karpelès]] using MediaWiki.
* 16 – The earliest documented pool-mined block is solved by [[Bitcoin_Pooled_Mining]], aka Slush's Pool.
<noinclude>==References==


[[!template id=wp]]</noinclude>
