[[!template id=year]][[!template id=infobox_year year=2011 firstblock=100410 blocks=59,626 supply=5,020,450 mining=2,981,300 startdifficulty=14,484 enddifficulty=1,159,929 hashrate= open="$0.30 USD" high="$31.91 USD" low="$0.29 USD" close="$4.70 USD" marketcap={{increase]] $23.6 million USD
blockvalue=[[!template id=increase]] $235.00 USD
blockreward=50 BTC
}}**2011** was the third year since the launch of [[Bitcoin]]. [[Dollar_parity]] was achieved as [[Satoshi_Nakamoto]] departed.__TOC__

##Events
###January

* 02 – [[Luke_Dashjr]] standardizes [[Tonal_Bitcoin]].
* 08 – [[Bitcoin_Pooled_Mining]] reaches 10 [[Ghash/s|hash_per_second]].
* 28 – [[Block]] 105000 is [[mined|mining]], meaning the supply of bitcoins reaches 25% of its [[target|controlled_supply]].
###February

* 09 – Bitcoin achieves [[dollar_parity]]. 1 bitcoin trades for 1 US dollar on [[Mt._Gox]]. (4.1)
* 10 – News of dollar parity attracts significant attention; [[bitcoin.org]] struggles to handle the traffic. (4.2)
* 14 – For the first time, a vehicle is offered for a sum of bitcoins. It was a 1984 Celica Supra for 3000 BTC. (4.3) A buyer was never found.
###March

* 01 – [[Jed_McCaleb]] sells [[Mt._Gox]] to [[Mark_Karpelès]].
* 06 – The network hashrate [[briefly doubles|March_6,_2011_hashrate_anomaly]]. (5.1)
* 18 – BTC/USD exchange rate reaches a 6-week low point at almost $0.70/BTC, after what appeared to be a short burst of possibly automated sales at progressively lower prices. The price had been declining since dollar parity.
* 22 – [[WeUseCoins]] publishes *[[What_is_Bitcoin?]]*, which became a viral hit.
* 25 – [[Difficulty]] decreases for the second time ever.
* 27 – [[Britcoin]] is established, opening the first Bitcoin exchange for the Pound Sterling.
* 31 – [[Bitcoin_Brazil]] is established, opening the first Bitcoin exchange for the Brazilian real.
###April

* 05 – [[Bitmarket.eu]] is established, opening the first Bitcoin exchange for the Polish złoty.
* 12 – The first Bitcoin put option contract is sold on [[Bitcoin-OTC]].
* 16 – TIME publishes an article on Bitcoin.
* 23 – The exchange rate reaches parity with the Euro and Pound Sterling.
* 27 – [[VirWoX]] is established, opening the first Bitcoin exchange for the Linden dollar.
* 30 – [[Difficulty]] tops 100,000.
###June

* 02 – The [[Mt._Gox]] exchange rate reaches an all-time high of $10.
* 08 – The [[2011_bubble]] tops at over $30, and pops in the following week.
* 13 – [[allinvain]] reports the theft of 25,000 BTC, worth $375,000.
* 19 – [[Mt._Gox]] is compromised.[[!template id=clarification_needed]]
* 24 – [[Difficulty]] tops 1,000,000.
##References

4.1: [Online-Only Currency BitCoin Reaches Dollar Parity](http://news.slashdot.org/story/11/02/10/189246/Online-Only-Currency-BitCoin-Reaches-Dollar-Parity)  
4.2: 2011-02-13 Id: 3444  
4.3: 2011-02-14 Id: 3485  
5.1: [[http://bitcoin.atspace.com/mysteryminer.html]]

[[!template id=wp]]
