[99 Bitcoins](http://99bitcoins.com) is a website and blog about Bitcoins. The website aims to close the gap between newbies and the technological aspect of Bitcoin through the use of a non technical blog and simple tutorials explained in laymen terms. 99 Bitcoins also operates the subdomain [99 Affiliates](http://affiliates.99bitcoins.com) which aims to be the most comprehensive source on the web for [[Bitcoin_Affiliate_Programs]].

##History

99 Bitcoins originally started out as BitcoinWithPaypal.com and focused on the sole purpose of explaining how to buy Bitcoins with Paypal. After receiving a complaint from Paypal's legal department regarding the use of their trademark in the domain name the website rebranded itself to 99 Bitcoins. In 2014 the website has expanded and offers tutorials not only about Bitcoin but also about other crypto currencies such as Litecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin, Feathercoin and more. 

##Software

99 Bitcoins has issued out various plugins and apps for the Bitcoin community.

###99 Coins Ticker
The 99 Coins Ticker is a Wordpress plugin that allows website owners to display the latest Bitcoin prices from 4 different exchanges on their Wordpress website - BTC-E, BitStamp, BTC China and BTC Average. The plugin also has a graphical display of historical Bitcoin prices up to 30 days back.

###Bitcoin News Feed Widget
The Bitcoin News Feed Widget is a Wordpress plugin that allows website owners to display the latest Bitcoin news stories on their website from various news sources. All stories are picked out manually.

###99 Bitcoins mobile app
The 99 Bitcoins mobile app is an Android app that displays the latest Bitcoin prices and news stories. The app is free of charge and also shows a graphical display of historical Bitcoin prices up to 30 days back.

##99 Affiliates

99 Affiliates is a subdomain of 99 Bitcoins dedicated solely to covering the subject of Bitcoin affiliate programs. The website is built as a blog which gives real live data from different Bitcoin affiliate programs after it has tested them out for conversion rates and payouts. Some of 99 Affiliates' content is restricted to registered users. Registration is free of charge.

##External Links

* [Coin Ticker WP Plugin](http://wordpress.org/plugins/bitcoin-ticker-widget/)
* [Bitcoin News Feed Widget](http://wordpress.org/plugins/bitcoin-news-ticker-widget/)
* [99 Bitcoins Android app](play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.omri.bitcoins)

##References



[[!tag "Blogs"]]
[[!tag "Educational"]]
