This wiki is a public resource that has as a goal the sharing of facts and
fostering a knowledge based community of Bitcoin users, developers and
anyone else that is interested in Bitcoin.

Unlike Wikipedia, the Bitcoin Wiki is not an encyclopedia. On this wiki we
store the original research and results, facts about its design and we try
to keep linking to external sites to a minimal.

This is also not a yellow-pages site.  Services, websites, applications
etc. are not to be promoted on this wiki.  
Exception; applications that help the Bitcoin ecosystem which  that are
available and runnable for the foreseeable future.
This technically means the sourcecode is freely available and hosted on a
popular site and it doesn't depend on a service or framework that may be
unavailable in the not-so-near future.

We don't allow soap-boxing. No Advocacy, propaganda, or recruitment of any
kind. Just the facts, please.

Because this resource is open to editing by the general public, readers
should be aware that the material presented here often does not reflect the
views of the entire Bitcoin community and may be outdated, incorrect, or
outright malicious at times.


## Guidelines

In the Bitcoin community, at the time of this writing, we have a severe
lack of facts. Researched facts that anyone can verify to be true. The
majority of arguments are based on the opinions of people, opinions that
nobody knows how far those opinions reflect reality.

This wiki was started to start providing a place where we can gather facts.
Gathering facts is not about gathering statistics, or solutions, or well
written arguments.

Creating a facts based wiki is about asking good questions and then finding
an answer in a way that others can follow your logic, follow your
methodology and only at the end present your facts and solutions.

The most important parts are the questions and the methodology for finding
answers to your questions.  This wiki is created for the sole purpose of
providing a place where those questions and those paths to finding the
answer can be shared and questioned by anyone.

With the weapon of facts and open research we can change the landscape from
endless arguments to competitive progress.

This wiki is made distributed and non-centralized. It is hosted in
[github](https://github.com/BitcoinFactsWiki/english)
and can be copied by anyone and they can start their own if they feel they
can host it better.   Additionally, research can be done in a private copy
of the wiki and later merged into the main one.


## License

The license of the content hosted here is CC-BY, unless otherwise stated.

[[!tag "Introduction"]]
