Anycoin Direct is a instant buying and selling platform based in The Netherlands. It's operating in Europe supporting multiple direct payment methods, after a successful payment the bitcoins are sent instantly. This means that Anycoin Direct doesn't hold any customer funds. 

## History 

Anycoin Direct started in April 2013 as Bitplaats, serving the Netherlands with payment method iDEAL. <br/>
On 1 January 2014 they started offering their services to Belgium customers with payment method Bancontact / Mister Cash (2.1). <br/>
On 6 July they changed their name to Anycoin Direct  (2.2), expanding their services to whole Europe with the addition of payment methods: SEPA, Sofort Banking, MyBank, Giropay, Online Bank Transfer<br/>

##Support

Anycoin Direct focuses on support, offering a toll free telephone number, live chat and email support.<br/>
	
##Supported currencies

* Bitcoin<br/>
* Litecoin<br/>
* Blackcoin<br/>
* Darkcoin<br/>
* Dogecoin<br/>
* Zetacoin<br/>
* Peercoin<br/>
* Namecoin<br/>
* Feathercoin<br/>

##Supported payment methods

* SEPA<br/>
* Giropay<br/>
* Sofort banking<br/>
* Bancontact / Mister Cash<br/>
* iDEAL<br/>
* MyBank<br/>
* Online Bank Transfer<br/>

##Fees and rates

The website exchange rate is based Bitstamp USD/BTC rate.<br/>

Buy bitcoin: 0.3%<br/>
Sell bitcoins: 1%<br/>

The various payment methods charge a fixed and a variable amount.<br/>

##External links
[Anycoin Direct website](https://anycoindirect.eu/)<br/>

##References

2.1: [Coindesk - Dutch Bitcoin Exchange Bitplaats Expands to Belgium](http://www.coindesk.com/dutch-exchange-bitplaats-expands-belgium/)  
2.2: [Cointelegraph - Anycoin Direct Makes Bitcoin Available All Over Europe in Under 5 Minutes](http://cointelegraph.com/news/112632/anycoin-direct-makes-bitcoin-available-all-over-europe-in-under-5-minutes)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
