## Asia Nexgen (ANX)

****[[ANX]] is a trading platform for buying and selling Bitcoin, Litecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin and Dogecoin in AUD, CAD, CHF, EUR, GBP, HKD, JPY, NZD, SGD and USD currencies . The exchange was established in 2013 and is legally registered and based in Hong Kong.  Asia Nexgen was one of the first Bitcoin exchanges in Hong Kong to be issued with a Money Services Operator (MSO) license by the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department.  The trading engine is built upon the LMAX Disruptor technology used by banks for their foreign currency exchange (FX) trading.  The engine was designed to handle high volume, high throughput, and low latency trading.  The exchange has a favorable reputation for offering same-day processing of deposit and withdrawal requests on a weekday daily basis.<br><br>

ANX originally offered only a single product, namely ****[[ANXBTC]] to satisfy customers whom were wanting to buy and sell Bitcoins via a simple and efficient service with fast and varied payment processing options.  <br><br>

On 20 January 2014, owing to the feedback from ANX clients ****[[ANXPRO]] was released.  ANXPRO was designed for the advanced user and specializes in Altcoins, Algos and Performance.  The platform provides a professional trading facility with all major currency and crypto pairs.  ANXPRO is the only crypto-currency exchange in the world that facilitates Altcoin trading in no less than 10 fiat currencies.<br><br>

In a January 2014 promotion, the company distributed red envelopes of “lucky money”, a centuries-old New Year's tradition, which contained vouchers for HK$10 worth of Bitcoin (about 1.4 mBTC at the time).<br><br>

In February 2014, the company prepared to open Hong Kong's first physical bitcoin shop, in Sai Ying Pun. Customers, who must supply an identity card and proof of address for anti-money laundering regulatory compliance, will be able to purchase bitcoins for cash.<br><br>

In March 2014, AXN has brought the first Bitcoin ATM to Hong Kong. Customers must be verified to use this ATM and will need to use their Bitcoin wallet QR code to make a cash deposit.<br><br>

## Advantages
	
•	Daily processing of withdrawals and deposits Mon-Fri, with less than 24hours turnaround.<br>
•	Currently running a zero transaction fees promotion.<br>
•	Offer local HKD/AUD banking support with zero deposit fees.<br>
•	Support the most popular cryto currencies:  Bitcoin, Litecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin and Dogecoin.<br>
•	Support all global fiat currencies:  USD/ HKD/ GBP/ CHF/ NZD/ EUR/ CAD/ AUD/ YEN/ SGD.<br>
•	A single order book for all currencies for maximum liquidity and ease of use from customer’s perspective.<br>
•	Multilingual support (English, Traditional Chinese, Simplified Chinese).<br>


## Security
•	Support Two-Factor Authentication greatly reducing online identity theft.<br>
•	ANX is using an industry leading service provider for DDOS protection and our servers are hosted in a Tier 3+ ISO 27001/9001 compliant datacentre.<br>
•	ANX supports two-factor authentication in addition to email verification for all crypto withdrawals.<br>
•	ANX does not run a fractural reserve. All customer funds segregated and accounted for.<br><br>

##External Links

* ****[[ANXPRO]]
* ****[[ANXBTC]]
* ****[Wikipedia](ANX)
* ****[LinkedIn](ANX)

[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
