Buys, sells, and exchanges [[MtGox]] [[redeemable codes|redeemable_code]], [[Crypto_X_Change]] redeemable codes, [[Liberty_Reserve]], PerfectMoney, [[Pecunix]], HD-Money, CosmicPay, SolidTrustPay, C-Gold, VouchX, EURO SEPA transfers, USD wire transfers, and GBP transfers.

Provides account funding for MtGox and CryptoXchange when making cash deposits at more than 10,000 locations across the USA (currently at the lowest fees in the industry). It is also possible to fund an account using SEPA Euro transfers, USD Wire Transfers, GBP Transfers and any of e-currencies supported by the company. Cash deposits are processed within one hour, while most e-currency funding is processed instantly, and funding involving bank transfers is completed within one to two business days.

It is also possible to exchange between e-currencies in real time (when allowed by the e-currency).

In addition to funding, you can withdraw funds by converting MtGox or CryptoXchange codes to any of the supported e-currencies, or by requesting a wire or bank transfer.

The company also offers the AurumXchange MasterCard to its premium members. This card can be loaded instantly and in real time using any of the funding methods described above. Once loaded, the funds are available to be withdrawn instantly at more than one million ATMs all over the world, and to make purchases at any retail or online store where MasterCard is accepted.

Aurum Capital Holdings, Incorporated in 2007 owns and operates the website that operates under the name The AurumXchange Company (1.1)

The company has been in business exchanging privately since 2007, and publicly since 2009 and it is currently considered to be one of the biggest e-currency exchangers in the world. The company is an official funding partner for MtGox, Bitcoinica, and CryptoXchange. The company is also an official certified exchanger for SolidTrustPay, HD-Money, C-Gold, and VouchX. The company is also certified as the official wholesaler for CosmicPay.

The AurumXchange company is a featured exchanger and member of the VFS Network, and has been certified by the Global Digital Currency Association since 2009).

##Affiliate Program

An affiliate program is offered to all with no registration requirement.  Ccommissions are paid out to the Liberty Reserve account number used for the affiliate link (2.1) 

##External Links

* [AurumXChange Company](https://www.aurumxchange.com) web site

##References


1.1: [The AurumXchange Company - Terms and Conditions](https://www.aurumxchange.com/content/privacy)  
2.1: [[http://www.aurumxchange.com/content/affiliate]]


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Money_transmitters"]]
