[[!template id=help_navbar]]

When using Todo lists, please add them on the **discussion** page rather than the main article. 

##Creating a List

> 1. Once on the **discussion** page, **Edit** the page and at the top of the text add a 

> <pre>{{Todo}}</pre>

> to the top of the article text. This will create a reference to the list (as you don't actually populate the list on the article page.)

> 2. After you have typed this, click the **Save page** button. The *Todo* list will then become visible on the **discussion** page.

> 3. Click the **Edit** button on the ToDo list. This will create a page for the Todo contents with some default text (basic instructions) on it.

> 4. Once you save this article (the contents), it will show up in the Todo list (at the top of the discussion page) and in the [[tags/ToDo]] list pages.


Don't worry about it showing in the [[tags/ToDo]] list starting with **Help talk:** because it will be sorted into the alphabetical order of the page name (for example, **A** for **Adding Custom Maps**).

##Using the ''Watch'' icon

You can use the **Watch** link at the top of any *Todo* list to add the *Todo* list to your [[Special:Watchlist]] and track any changes.

## Completing Todo items

When completing items, add your name against the item and strike it out. Striking an item out can be achieved by adding <code><nowiki><s></nowiki></code> at the beginning and a <code><nowiki></s></nowiki></code> at the end of the item (see example below). If all the items have been completed, you can then remove the <code><nowiki>{{Todo}}</nowiki></code> from the discussion page.

### Example

<pre>*Add a picture to the article.</pre>

To complete the item, change it to:

<pre>*<s>Add a picture to the article.</s> - Done --~~~~</pre>

Which will show as:

* <s>Add a picture to the article.</s> - Done --<span style="text-shadow:orange 0px 0px 3px;"><font color="#FF6600"><tt><big><u>****</u></big></tt></font>[Firestorm](User:Firestorm)</span> 14:54, 30 May 2011 (GMT)



[[!tag "Help"]]
