Bitcoin Sports Trade is a new user vs user bet matching site. 

This betting platform lets you to choose your own point totals at even odds.  This gives players the power to dictate what the ‘true’ line is.

To simplify this concept think of it in terms of a bitcoin exchange (like bitstamp, campbx, coinbase , ect) in the sense that there is no actual “Real” set price of BTC, the price is determined by the supply and demand of the customers and a recommended price is then set on the exchange based on what the last trade(s) closed at. This is how players determine what the “True” line is, just like a bitcoin exchange does. 

No Juice!

In addition to being able to create your own lines you can do so without paying any additional Juice! All bets are always at even money.

Traditional sportsbooks offer the ability to take a better number on a current line but they will charge you extra juice which can make the bet far too expensive.

What are the fees?

The only fee is the bet matching fee of 3.5% which is deducted from completed bets. 

Anonymous Betting

To create an account all you need is an email address. 

Instant Payouts

As soon as a contest is competed your account balance will reflect your winnings and you’ll be free to withdraw your BTC instantly. 

No Minimum Withdrawals

There are no withdrawal minimums so whatever amount you win you can instantly withdraw at any time.

No Withdrawal Fees

There are no withdrawal fees.

Live In-Play Betting

Bet while you watch the game. Not only can you place bets prior to the game starting, you can bet at any point during the game. You can follow the game and make bets on the fly.

Earn 100% Affiliate Commissions!

The affiliate program features 100% affiliate commissions for the first month!  After the first month earn up to 50% commissions by simply referring 2 new members each month. All commissions are paid in BTC.

Your Commission Earnings are Paid Out Instantly!

Unlike traditional affiliate programs that usually take over a month to get paid, commissions are paid out as soon as you earn it! Your account balance is credited instantly. 

Visit http://bitcoinsportstrade.com for more information and to create an account.
