**Bitcoin.travel** is a Google Maps-based interactive bitcoin directory service of online and real world businesses that currently accept Bitcoin.

Since July 2011 the service is trying to create a credible, reliable, comprehensive and easy to use website with all the businesses that currently deal with Bitcoin. Bitcoin.Travel directory is widely recognizable among bitcoiners worldwide. Bitcoin.Travel team frequently provides the whole bitcoin community with information about new businesses accepting bitcoins via their Facebook, Twitter and r/bitcoin subreddit. Bitcoin.Travel directory is also mentioned on WeUseCoins website in the getting started section, so it is visited almost by every bitcoin newbie.

Logged-in users, that have listed their businesses, are provided with a personalised dashboard where they may add and edit their listings anytime. Service requires a re-listing process after a 3-month period, so that the information provided is always up-to-date. These features makes this directory a unique place where bitcoin users may find websites and physical places to spend, store or exchange their bitcoins.

The service has developed an advanced search engine for their visitors that allows them to refine search results within each category by information provided by logged-in users during the process of business listing submission.

Bitcoin.Travel developers have created a credible and easy to use review engine for their visitors. It is aimed to create a trustworthy review web service for all Bitcoiners worldwide.

Service provides a members area, where users can gain access to the latest member services through a personalized dashboard. It enables to add and edit listings of bitcoin businesses in seconds. Users can register on site and easily manage listings they have listed, so that the information provided is up-to-date.

Bitcoin directory of online and real world businesses that currently accept Bitcoin - Where to Buy, Store, Spend and Sell Bitcoins Around The World

##History

This service was first offered on July, 2011

##External Links

* [Bitcoin.Travel](http://www.bitcoin.travel) web site.

[[!tag "Local"]]
[[!tag "Directories"]]
