A bitcoin [[currency_exchange]] site.

This exchange escrows funds before trading and then matches buyers with sellers.  The exchange's web site shows copyright Bitcoin7.  The Terms of Service describses how the terms of Use shall be governed by the laws applicable in the Republic Bulgaria. Bitcoin7 and Bitcoin7.com represents.
Further:

* "the European operations performed by "AbuDhabi 2010" EOOD, a company registered in the European Union, Bulgaria, Sofia"

* "the US operations performed by "Risk Asset Management" LLC, a company registered in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA"


##Adding Funds
Funds deposited with the exchange for escrow towards placing a buy order include the following. Bitcoin7 operates in 5 markets as of June 2011 (USD, EUR, PLN, SAR, BGN)

###Deposit

##BTC

* Bitcoin deposited are available once funds confirm.

##USD

* [[Dwolla]] (instant, $0.25 fee that you pay to Dwolla during transfer)
* [[Liberty_Reserve]] USD (instant, 1% fee that you pay to LR during transfer)
* Bank Transfer (Domestic wire)
* International wire (to EU bank)

##EUR

* [[Liberty_Reserve]] EUR (instant, 1% fee that you pay to LR during transfer)
* Bank Transfer (FIBank (EU)) (free, 1-3 business days)

##BGN

* Bank Transfer (Free, domestic BG bank transfer)

###BTC

* Adding bitcoins to the account balance incurs no fees.
##Mtgox

* Send funds directly from your mtgox account (1% fee, instant)

##Withdrawing Funds

##BTC

* Withdrawing Bitcoin funds incurs a 0.01 fee, presumably so that a transaction fee will be paid and the payment will confirm quickly.

##USD

* [[Dwolla]] Incurs Dwolla's $0.25 per-transaction fee.
* [[Liberty_Reserve]] (Fees 2%)
* Bank transfer (ACH)
* International bank transfer (USD converted to EUR and sent via SEPA transfer to EU banks)

##EUR

* Bank transfer (SEPA transfer to EU banks)

##PLN

* Bank transfer (PLN converted to EUR and sent via SEPA transfer to EU banks)

##BGN

* Bank transfer (to a Belgian (BG) bank)
* ePay (1%)

##SAR

* Bank transfer

##Trading

Limit orders are placed with a specific price.  When a counter-party is found, the trade will execute.  Partial fills are possible.

Market orders are accommodated through a method that involves quotations.

###Fees

Trades on the exchange incur a commission (fee) of .57% each trade.  The rate is specified in the user's account profile. 

##History

The exchange was announced on June 15, 2011 (19.1).

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Bitcoin7.com](http://goo.gl/Gst0D) Official Site

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]


##References

19.1: [Bitcoin7.com - Brand new exchange market!](http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=17043.msg219839#msg219839)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
