[Bitcoini.com](https://bitcoini.com/) is the only Bulgaria-based market place for Bitcoin exchange in the country and worldwide. The primary aim of the website is to popularize Bitcoin and offer a quick, cheap and secure way to sell or purchase Bitcoins. Bitcoini.com offers various methods for purchasing/selling bitcoins depending on the location of the buyer/seller: bank transfer (Bulgarian or Romanian bank), ePay (financial transactions system in Bulgaria), Econt (Bulgarian courier service), Bulgarian Posts (Postal order), and “in cash” (only for the territory of Sofia), Western Union and MoneyGram (for international customers).
The only payment method available in Romania is bank transfer in Romanian lei. Internationally,
[Bitcoini.com](https://bitcoini.com/) offers only a “buy” service for bitcoins in USD, using Western Union or MoneyGram.


## Buy bitcoins

###Buying process for international customers (in USD)

The user needs to register at bitcoini.com and place an order through their profile. The order can be placed only after the user enters an amount of bitcoins he is willing to buy (minimum 0.1 BTC), provides a valid Bitcoin address and selects either “Western Union” or “MoneyGram” as a payment method.
For both payment options the user needs to follow the same instructions, namely:

1. Place an order, determining the amount of bitcoins he is willing to purchase, provide a valid Bitcoin wallet address and select one of the two payment options.

2. Visit a Western Union or MoneyGram office and transfer the amount that is mentioned in the order.
(He can view the payment details after he places the order)

3. After initiating the transfer, Western Union/MoneyGram will provide the user with a MTCN number.

4. The user needs to submit this number to bitcoini.com, using the fill-in from that will automatically appear in the newly created order.



###Buying process in Bulgaria (in BGN)

The user needs to register at bitcoini.com and place an order through their profile. The order can be placed only after the user enters an amount of bitcoins he is willing to buy (minimum 0.1 BTC), provides a valid Bitcoin address and choses from one of the following payment methods:

####Bank transfer
After entering an amount of bitcoins for purchase, submitting a valid Bitcoin wallet address and selecting “bank transfer” as a payment option, the user needs to transfer the amount mentioned in the order to a bank account, which will be provided after the order is placed. After the transfer is completed and the money has arrived on the bank account of bitcoini.com, the bitcoins are send to the user’s Bitcoin wallet address.

####EasyPay
After entering an amount of bitcoins for purchase, submitting a valid Bitcoin wallet address and selecting “EasyPay” as a payment option, the user has two options: either to visit an office of EasyPay and initiate an order to the Clinet ID of bitcoini.com (provided after the order is placed) or to transfer the funds directly through ePay, a Bulgarian electronic payments system (this option requires a valid ePay account with a registered debit/credit card). After the money has arrived at bitcoini.com account at ePay, the bitcoins are send to the user.

####Econt
After entering an amount of bitcoins for purchase, submitting a valid Bitcoin wallet address and selecting “Econt” as a payment option, the user needs to visit an office of Econt and initiate a money order using the details, provided to him after placing the order.

####Bulgarian Posts
After entering an amount of bitcoins for purchase, submitting a valid Bitcoin wallet address and selecting “Postal order” as a payment option, the user needs to visit an office of Bulgarian Posts and initiate a money order using the details, provided to him after placing the order.

####Payment in cash
This payment option is available only for the territory of Sofia. After entering an amount of bitcoins for purchase, submitting a valid Bitcoin wallet address and selecting “Cash” as a payment option, the user needs to contact bitcoini.com using either the online chat service or the phone number that will be provided to him after placing the order.

###Buying process in Romania (in RON)

The user needs to register at bitcoini.com and place an order through their profile. The order can be placed only after the user enters an amount of bitcoins he is willing to buy (minimum 0.1 BTC), provides a valid Bitcoin address and selects “Bank transfer” as a payment method.

The user needs to visit a bank and make a money transfer to the bank account of bitcoini.com in Romania (details will be provided after placing an order). After the money has successfully arrived in that bank account, the relevant amount of bitcoins is sent to the user.

##Sell bitcoins

###Selling process for Bulgaria (in BGN)

The user needs to register at bitcoini.com and place an order through their profile. The order can be placed only after the user enters an amount of bitcoins he is willing to sell (minimum 0.1 BTC), transfer the bitcoins to the Bitcoin wallet address of bitcoini.com and selects a payment option. There are two ways for the user to be credited for selling his bitcoins 
bank transfer or “in cash”

####Bank transfer

The user needs to place a selling order at bitcoini.com by entering an amount he is willing to sell, sending that amount of bitcoins to the Bitcoin wallet address of the website, entering the BTC transaction number (visible after the initiation of the bitcoin transfer at the user’s Bitcoin wallet), proving first and family name, the IBAN number of his bank account, as well as the BIC code of his bank. After receiving the bitcoins at the bitcoini.com Bitcoin wallet, the money is transferred to the bank account of the user.

####Selling in cash

This service is available only for the territory of Sofia. The user needs to place a selling order at bitcoini.com by entering an amount he is willing to sell, sending the bitcoins to the Bitcoin wallet address of the website, entering the BTC transaction number (visible after the initiation of the bitcoin transfer at the user Bitcoin wallet), and contacting bitcoini.com to schedule a meeting using either the online chat service or the phone number that will be provided to him, after placing the order.

##Speed of service
The speed of the services offered by bitcoini.com depends on the time that is required for the owners of the website to be 100% certain that:

1. In the case of a user purchasing bitcoins – the required amount, mentioned in the user’s order, has been delivered to one of the various accounts (depending on the payment method) of bitcoini.com, or have been delivered “in cash”. As soon as the 100% level of certainty that an order has been paid is reached, the bitcoins are send to the user. This can take from a couple of minutes to a maximum of 24 hours, since any order is active for only 24 hours. Payments in cash are organized at a convenient for both sides place and time.

2. In the case of a user selling bitcoins – the bitcoins have been delivered to the Bitcoin wallet of bitcoini.com. Added to this is the time required for the bank, or in the case of international users – Western Union or MoneyGram, to process the payment, initiated in the name of the user by bitcoini.com.  Payments in cash are organized at a convenient for both sides place and time.


##News Service

For Bulgarian customers, bitcoini.com offers a news service in Bulgarian, which is primarily composed of English articles translated into Bulgarian. Proper references regarding the original sources of the texts are always included. Original articles prepared by bitcoini.com are provided irregularly. 
News services for the Romanian and English versions of the website are RSS feed-based.

##Fees

Bitcoini.com determines the “buy” and “sell” prices for bitcoins on the basis of the price of other exchanges and adds a small managing fee. The buy price is usually lower than the buy price at Mt.Gox. 

##Security
The owners of the website are trying to provide customers with the best possible Bitcoin buying/selling service in an uncertain regulatory environment. The development of the bitcoini.com brand name demands high quality customer relations and a high level of customer satisfaction.

##Affiliate program
The website offers an affiliate program for its users, which is a good way of earning bitcoins by popularizing bitcoini.com
The user can use one of the pre-made banners available at the website and place it in his forum signature, on his website, or in Facebook.
If another user clicks on the banner, registers at bitcoini.com and makes an order, the original user earns a 2% fee from the amount of the bitcoin order of the new user.
Various banner sizes in English are available at: [(1)](https://bitcoini.com/en/affiliate.php?mode=banners)
The same banners are also available in Romanian and Bulgarian.

##See also

[FAQ](https://bitcoini.com/en/about.php)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
