An exchange that features a variety of funding and withdrawal methods with payment options available on all continents.

##Buy

###Bank wire

* Euro (EUR) - SEPA wire transfer in Euros sent from from anywhere in the European Union / E.U.
* Danish krone (DKK) - Domestic bank wire in kroners from any bank in Denmark
* U.S. dollar (USD) - International bank wire transfers in U.S. dollars to Bitcoin Nordic's Danish bank account.

###Cash or check by mail

Cash or check may be sent by mail (Denmark) or may be deposited in-person (Copenhagen) with appointment.  The currencies listed below are accepted in any amount up to daily AML limits.  Other currencies may be accepted as well, contact for details.

* EUR - European Union (E.U.) - Euro
* DKK - Denmark - Danish krone
* USD - United States (U.S.) - U.S. dollar
* GBP - United Kingdom (UK) - British sterling pound
* NOK - Norway - Norwegian krone
* SEK - Sweden - Swedish krona

###CashU card

Redeem a [[CashU]] card (available in the Middle East, Northern Africa, Pakistan and elsewhere) with Bitcoin Nordic for the purchase of bitcoins.  CashU cards are available in the following countries.

Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Malaysia, Nigeria, Oman, Palestine, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tanzania, Turkey, Tunisia, Yemen, United Arab Emirates

###UKash voucher

A [[UKash]] voucher may be used to fund your CashU account which can then be used online with Bitcoin Nordic to buy bitcoins.

UKash vouchers may be purchased with cash at retail locations in the following countries.

####Europe


Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, Slovenia, Switzerland, United Kingdom (UK), Ukraine

####Middle East

Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia (KSA), Syria, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Yemen

####Africa

Algeria, Egypt, Ghana, Libya, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, Tunisia

####Asia

China, Malaysia

####North America

Canada, Mexico

####Central and South America

Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay

####Oceania

Australia, New Zealand

##Sell

Bitcoins can be sold at the exchange.  The rate they are exchanged at is based on the market price at [[MtGox]] less a certain percentage for the fee.  The sell trade occurs within 24 hours with withdrawal following immediately after the sell.

Proceeds may be sent to a PayPal account or as a SEPA bank transfer.

##History
This service was announced on April 02, 2012 (15.1).

On May 30, 2012 the service discontinued accepting credit card after its merchant processing partner, eWire, severed the relationship citing pressure placed by the VISA / Mastercard "duopoly" (15.2).

On July 14, 2012 it was announced that the cash network CashU was now supported as a method for purchasing bitcoins (15.3). 

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Bitcoin Nordic](https://BitcoinNordic.com) website
* [@BitcoinNordic](http://twitter.com/BitcoinNordic) Twitter account

##References

15.1: [BitcoinNordic: Instant Bitcoins with Scandinavian credit cards](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=75075.0)  
15.2: [BitcoinNordic discontinues credit card purchases indefinitely](http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/uaicw/bitcoinnordic_discontinues_credit_card_purchases/c4ttz8g)  
15.3: [Bitcoin Nordic brings Bitcoin to 300M people in the Middle East and North Africa](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=93352.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
