We are a hidden service that mixes your Bitcoins to remove the link between you and your transactions. This adds an essential layer of anonymity to your online activity to protect you against 'Blockchain Analysis'. 2014.

##1. Why Mix Your Coins

Using Bitcoin does not protect your anonymity. This is because Bitcoin works on a public leger, meaning anybody anywhere can see and follow every transaction you ever make. From the moment you buy your coins, to the moment you cash them out... they can be followed. And if anything along the way can be linked to your identity - for example if you bought or sold using your bank account, face to face with cash, or even using a voucher from a store with CCTV - then an agency with the right tools could theoretically find you without much trouble. Classic examples of people who might follow your online activity and reveal your identity, are Law Enforcement Agencies, somebody with a grudge, or hackers who have noticed you are moving large amounts of money around.

But by 'mixing' your Bitcoins, you are essentially breaking the link between your identity and your transactions - Bitcoin Blender lets you prevent Blockchain Analysis by swapping your coins for somebody else's. In other words, you deposit your coins into one 'pot', and we send you coins from another 'pot', breaking the chain.

##2. Why Bitcoin Blender?

At Bitcoin Blender, we have implemented a range of features that we believe make us one of the best, most effective Bitcoin mixing services available:

- Low, Randomized Fees (1-3%)
When you deposit coins into your Bitcoin Blender account, we will take a low, randomized fee of between 1-3%. We make our fees low to keep coin mixing affordable, and we randomize the fee to make analysis of our service less predictable.

- Password Reset With Bitmessage
By setting your Bitmessage address in your profile you can activate our Password Reset feature. We do of course advise remembering your password!

- Withdraw ONLY Freshly-Mined Coins
If you would prefer to withdraw coins that are not just un-associated with you, but un-associated with ANYTHING, then for a slightly higher fee you can opt for only freshly-mined coins upon withdrawal.

- Up To 5 Simultaneous Deposit Addresses
As per coin-mixing best-practice (see part 4 below), splitting chunks of money between different wallets and addresses makes your anonymity even stronger. With Bitcoin Blender you can send your un-mixed coins to 5 different addresses at once - they will all show up as a single balance in your account for ease of withdrawal.

- Auto-Withdrawal
If you prefer, you can set a wallet address for auto-withdrawal so you do not have to log back in to withdraw your coins.

- Fast Processing
Although it is recommended that you let your coins 'sit' for a while (among other techniques - see part 4 below), Bitcoin Blender makes your coins instantly available for withdrawal the moment your deposit(s) is/are confirmed.

- Test Sending
In the rare event that you're trying to mix more coins than we have online in our Hot Wallet of fresh coins, Test Send lets you check how much you can withdraw without receiving any of your old coins back. If your balance exceeds our hot wallet's balance you can check if a lower amount is available using Test Send, withdraw that amount, then wait for us to move more coins from our cold storage wallet - this will normally be within 24 hours. Test Send is a feature unique to Bitcoin Blender, and although it will rarely be needed, it can come in very handy for safely mixing large quantities of coin.

##3. Other Methods

There are several ways of 'mixing' your coins, however many of these do not provide the same protection against Blockchain Analysis as Bitcoin Blender (and other similar hidden services).

Perhaps the most common method aside from using a hidden service mixer like Bitcoin Blender, is the Coin Join method found on services such as Shared Coin. The way this method
18.09.14	
works is by attaching your transaction to a number of other transactions, thereby making it difficult to tell which has gone where. And although this method does help maintain a certain degree of anonymity, it still provides a level of 'taint' for somebody experienced in Blockchain Analysis. 'Taint' can be seen as the trail your transaction leaves behind, and although techniques used by services like Shared Coin certainly blur that trail, they do not remove it completely - for best results, you should find a service that sends you coins from a completely different 'pot'.

##4. Best-Practice for Top-Level Anonymity

As a standalone tool, Bitcoin Blender provides a very good level of anonymity for erasing your transaction trail. However, as with anything, you can always take extra precautions to ensure your anonymity remains top-notch and offers the greatest protection possible. As well as using Bitcoin Blender, we recommend the following:

1. Deposit to Multiple Addresses
By making multiple deposits of different amounts to different deposit addresses over a period of time you are further improving your anonymity.

2. Delay Your Withdrawals
If somebody is watching the Blockchain, and they notice a transaction for 100btc at 4:30, followed by another transaction of 98btc at 5:00, they might suspect this is a part of the same trail - even if there is no hardcore evidence. By waiting several hours, days or even weeks, you are further distancing yourself from association with the coins you wish to mix.

3. Withdraw to Multiple Addresses
By the same token, if you deposit 100btc and withdraw 98btc to a single address, this may give somebody watching the Blockchain reason to suspect it is part of the same trail. By making multiple withdrawals to different addresses generated by different wallets over a long period of time, you are further improving your anonymity.

4. Mix Multiple Times
If you want to really make your trail as difficult to follow as possible, and there is another service you trust you could mix your coins several times.

5. Mix In, Mix Out
Your 'buy in' and 'buy out' are the most vulnerable parts of your transaction trail, as they are the most likely points that you will be identified. If you do not wish your transactions to be followed, mix all coins you buy before you spend them, then mix anything you withdraw again on their way back out.

##External Links

<span style="color:green;font-size:1.25em">**http://blenderi54mbtyhz.onion**</span> Original Link (Late 2014)

* [Official website](http://blenderi54mbtyhz.onion/)


[[!tag "Mixing_Services"]]
