BitChanger is a user-to-user, auction based currency exchange. Sellers list their currency on the site, buyers will bid on the currency. The winning bidder is the highest bidder when the auction ends. All transactions are facilitated between buyer and seller. This eliminates the need for charging a fee and enables BitCoin users to take full control of their coins.

<span style="color:red;">This is a fairly new exchange.  The exchange does not use basic security (https) when authenticating, causing passwords to be sent across the internet in clear text.</span>

###About
This works similar to an <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[Services Protection Plan](Merchant) exchange like Mt Gox or Tradehill, but you get to choose from whom you buy or sell. This also establishes a reputation system so that your transactions are secure. You can leave feedback for each user in the transaction to let others know who to trust.

The auction system is run by the members. If you are selling <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[targeting](behavioral) currency, you are able to set how long you wish to leave your listing active. You can also choose a buy-it-now option. Upon check-out, the winning bidder will be given a <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[building](link) BitCoin receiving address (or whatever payment method was chosen to use to fund the transaction.)

##Buying
Register an account at Bitchanger (browse for currency to buy) and select the currency you wish to purchase. Place a bid on the selected currency and wait for <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[detox diet pill](tone) the auction to end. Once the auction has ended and the user has successfully won the currency auction, they will be presented with <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[pistachios](buy) various payment options based on <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[property](Phuket) the currency. Complete the payment, once it has cleared the seller will release the funds. 
###BTC

* Adding bitcoins to the account balance incur no fees.  Funds are available for trading once the payment confirms.

###USD

* [[Dwolla]] (instant, $0.25 fee that you pay to Dwolla during transfer)
* [[PayPal]] (use your Paypal balance to fund your BitCoin transactions; use with caution)
* [[Liberty_Reserve]] USD (instant, 1% fee that you pay to LR during transfer)
* Bank Transfer (Domestic wire)
* International wire (to EU bank)

###Other Currency

* Same as listed above

##Selling
Register an account at Bitchanger ’List Your Currency‘ you want to sell. Enter the specific details of your sale. Make sure to list the date and time you wish the auction to end, in the right hand corner of the auction editor (or use the buy-it-now feature.) Wait for the auction to end and <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[River cruises](Yangtze) then the <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[life and casualty company](bankers) winning bidder will be presented the BitCoin address the user entered when they registered (or it can be edited in their profile.) When a payment is received, the <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[gun](stun) user releases their funds!

###BTC

* The only fee associated with withdrawing BitCoin are ones issued by the <span class="plainlinks"><span style="color:black;font-weight:normal; text-decoration:none!important; background:none!important; text-decoration:none;"></span>[of urantia](gabriel) network itself. You can use any method to fund your payment (client; e-wallet)

###USD

* [[Dwolla]] Incurs Dwolla's $0.25 per-transaction fee.
* [[Paypal]] Depends on size of transaction
* [[Liberty_Reserve]] (Fees 2%)
* Bank transfer (ACH)
* International bank transfer (USD converted to EUR and sent via SEPA transfer to EU banks)

###Other Currency

* Same as above

##Trading

Any fraudulent activity will result in immediate account suspension. Users are responsible for reporting any violations or suspect activity. Security issues will be dealt with swiftly. 

###Fees

Trades on the exchange incur no fees, unless required by the payment gateway. 

##History

The exchange was announced on July 15th, to compete with the other anonymous exchanges. 

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [BitChanger](http://bitpoker.biz/bitchanger) Official Site

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]


##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
