A mobile app for sending and receiving bitcoins for Android users.

This app uses the Bitcoin Client API ([[BCCAPI]]), does not download the blockchain, and stores private keys only on your device.

The project's author describes the app as being a light-weight, secure and user friendly Bitcoin wallet for Android.

Feature Overview:

* Send and receive Bitcoins using QR codes
* Share your Bitcoin address using Gmail, Twitter and more.
* Backup/restore wallet using QR codes.
* All your Bitcoins are protected using private keys stored on your device using app private storage.

BitcoinSpinner is NOT an on-line Bitcoin Bank. Nobody can run away with your Bitcoins. It is implemented on top of the [[BCCAPI]], which means that all the heavy lifting associated with managing the block chain is hosted on a server. The server side is not in any position to spend your Bitcoins, as all private keys are stored in your device only. 

This project was announced on November 23, 2011 (1.1).

More features:

* Spend 'unconfirmed-change-sent-to-yourself' immediately, just like the Satoshi client
* Automated network fee calculation, guaranteeing that your transactions go through the Bitcoin network
* BitcoinSpinner does not download and manage the Bitcoin block chain. This means:
	* Ready for use immediately.
	* Low storage requirements.
	* Low bandwidth requirements.
	* Low CPU requirements. 
	* Low battery consumption.

##External Links

* [BitcoinSpinner](http://market.android.com/details?id=com.miracleas.bitcoin_spinner) app on Android Marketplace
* [BitcoinSpinner Testnet](http://market.android.com/details?id=com.miracleas.bitcoin_spinner_testnet) app (uses [[Testnet]] coins)
* [BitcoinSpinner](http://code.google.com/p/bitcoinspinner) project on Google Code

##References

1.1: [BitcoinSpinner](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=52674.0)


[[!tag "Mobile"]]
[[!tag "Frontends"]]
[[!tag "User_Interfaces"]]
[[!tag "Clients"]]
[[!tag "Wallets"]]
[[!tag "Free_Software"]]
[[!tag "Open_Source"]]
[[!tag "HybridEWallets"]]
