This page serves as the Wiki issue tracker. 

To file a new issue, add a second-level heading (==), and describe your issue in detail.

Issue discussion should happen on the Talk page.

Do not delete resolved issues unless you are a wiki administrator, or the creator of the issue.

## Presented with SSL cert from another site

A few times on 2014-03-27, non-deterministically across a few pages, I got the typical "wrong SSL cert" warning from Firefox, saying I'd been delivered the cert for **kitchensurfing.com**, issued the same day.
> Yes, this is months ago, and has long since been fixed. --[Gmaxwell](User:Gmaxwell) ([[talk|User_talk:Gmaxwell]]) 15:47, 8 June 2014 (UTC)

## Backup site broken via HTTPS

dump.bitcoin.it just goes to the Main Page if accessed with SSL

## Bitc<b></b>oin:* namespace interwiki links broken

Links to <b></b>[[coin:Community portal]] (for example) get turned into broken bitcoin: URI links.
> Looks like someone mistakenly put "bitcoin" in the interwiki table, it's just a namespace and doesn't need an entry there. --[Gmaxwell](User:Gmaxwell) ([[talk|User_talk:Gmaxwell]]) 15:46, 8 June 2014 (UTC)

Example [test](Bitcoin:About)
One more example [test3](Bitcoin:something3)

## Make the anti-spam payment system more discoverable
I understand that [[Cryptopay]] is [replaced](being)(http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/27lofu/dear_bitcoin_foundation_please_take_ownership_of/ci20i6t). Can you give us more details on that? The new system should be more discoverable by new users - I suggest a notification for every new user on how to edit. (people still ask me how to edit the damn thing).

## Require a fee for new user registration
There is still a big spam problem in the [Recent Changes page](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=Special:RecentChanges&limit=500). As a workaround, can use [this link](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?namespace=2&invert=1&title=Special%3ARecentChanges) to view recent changes excluding the user namespace.

## Use a proper issue tracker
I know you like wikis ... but can't we use something like Zendesk to track issue?
Wikis weren't designed to be issue trackers...
> I don't think this would be a good idea. More eyes on the wiki, tending the recent changes, is something we need. Deflecting things off onto something else will not improve the quality of the wiki. --[Gmaxwell](User:Gmaxwell) ([[talk|User_talk:Gmaxwell]]) 15:44, 8 June 2014 (UTC)
