**Bitcoin-Central.net** is a [[currency_exchange]] based in France and operated by [[Paymium]], that allows trading between bitcoins (BTC) and Eur. 

It is notably the first exchange to operate within the framework of European regulation and to guarantee the fiat deposits of its users. (1.1)

##Features
On December 6, 2012, Bitcoin-Central announced that: (1.1)

* User funds would be held at Aqoba's partner financial institution under the user's name, separately from [[Paymium]]'s funds
* User accounts will be individually protected up to 100,000 EUR by the [Garantie des dépôts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deposit_insurance#By_EU_country), the French equivalent of the American [FDIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Deposit_Insurance_Corporation)
* Each account would in a few months after launch get its very own IBAN number, enabling its use as any other bank account, e.g. for salary deposits with optional automatic conversion to Bitcoin
* Each user would soon be able to order their own debit card, accessing their EUR and BTC balance
* All incoming and outgoing transfers would be 100% automated via direct access to the banking networks
* Corporations would have access to an actual financial institution if they wish to start accepting Bitcoin and be safe from a regulatory point of view

Paymium hopes to have a much better legal standing and a much higher attractiveness for second and third-round investors.

##Deposits

###BTC
Bitcoins funds are added to the account after a manual confirmation process.

###EUR
EUR bank transfers (SEPA) are accepted for deposits at no charge by the exchange.

###International wire
Any currency may be sent as an international wire transfer. Currency conversion fees apply.

##Withdrawals
###BTC
Bitcoins funds can be withdrawn at no charge.

###EUR
EUR bank transfers (SEPA) are sent and incur a wire fee.

##Security

Accounts can be secured for two-factor authentication using Google Authenticator OTP or Yubico's Yubikey.

##Mobile

Though there is no option for trading through Bitcoin-Central using a mobile app, the account's eWallet can be accessed for depositing and withdrawals (for spending) using the [[Paytunia]] mobile app or the Paytunia website.

##History

* The site was launched on December 29, 2010. (12.1)
* On April 5, 2012, the [[Paytunia]] e-wallet was announced.  Exchange accounts can be accessed using Paytunia's web and mobile clients. (12.2)
* On December 6, 2012, it was announced that Bitcoin-Central was the first exchange licensed to operate within the framework of European regulations. (1.1)
* On September 25, 2013, the exchange re-launched after being closed for half a year. (12.3).

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Bitcoin-Central.net](https://bitcoin-central.net/)

##References

1.1: [Bitcoin-Central, first exchange licensed to operate with a bank. This is HUGE](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=129461.0)  
12.1: [Announcing bitcoin-central.net - trade USD and EUR for free!](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2519.0)  
12.2: [Paytunia Bitcoin wallet released today!](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=75550.0)  
12.3: [Bitcoin-Central re-launch](https://twitter.com/Bitcoin_Central/status/382585017789972480)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
[[!tag "Free_Software"]]
[[!tag "License/AGPL"]]
[[!tag "Open_Source"]]
