<div style="border: 1px solid red; background-color: #cfc; padding: 10px;">**The Contributors Award is still new. The rules may be changed to fix things that weren't initially planned, and nothing tells if this will happen again next month!**

The concept is however really simple: share received donations between people contributing on the wiki.</div>

The **Contributors Award** is a bitcoin sum awarded to the contributors of this wiki!

It can be awarded to everyone who have been contributing, except [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux), bots and anyone willing to help fine-tuning the scoring after the deadline for a session has been reached. Contributors are invited to provide their bitcoin address on their user page so they can receive their coins when awarded.

**Next Contributors Award**: January 31st 2011 (also covers december). Donate on [1AFTHqc2kqfH7JqYWRecHyE5f9SyXn2aGk](http://blockexplorer.com/address/1AFTHqc2kqfH7JqYWRecHyE5f9SyXn2aGk) (click on there to see how much has been received for the next contributors award)

## Rules

### Application

To apply to the Contributors Award, you need to have a bitcoin address published on your user page. Only a bitcoin address you've put yourself will be used. If someone else changes the bitcoin address on your user page, the bot will look in previous revisions of your page to find one edited by you. The following format should be used on your page:

	Contributors Award participant: 1....................

By applying to the Contributors Award you confirm you can legally receive bitcoins in your jurisdiction and take full responsability.

### How are winners decided

A bot will list most active contributors and rank them based on the amount of pages/lines/etc contributed. Only contributions that were not removed will be counted. The contributions will then be quickly checked by [MagicalTux](User:MagicalTux) and a list of winners will be compiled and published within one week. Scoring will also be based on other parameters, see below.

Once the list is published, donations will be directed to the contributors within 3 days, after making sure the listed address for each contributor is correct. Contributors can choose to have their donations directed to somewhere else by directly putting the bitcoin address of the beneficiary of their choice. Contributors who do not publish a bitcoin address will not be counted when the Contributors Award is shared between contributors.

Every contributor with serious contribution, no matter how small, will receive a part of the award, except if excluded.

### Sessions

A session is the period of time covered by a given award. Sessions are planned to last for one month, however this may be changed in the future to reflect the amount of donations received and work required to establish a list of winners.

### Donations

The Contributors Award fund is made only of donations from bitcoin users. Donations will be held by Tibanne Co. Ltd. until winners have been decided, at which points the received amount will be split between contributors proportionally to their score.

Employees of Tibanne Co. Ltd., their family, relatives, dogs and cats are explicitly denied participation in the Contributors Award.

### Direct donations

If you have a personal preference for a given contributor or feel this contributor is doing a great job, you are strongly encouraged to donate directly to this contributor. Donations to the Contributors Award will be distributed between contributors of the wiki using specific rules. Donating to the contributors award doesn't mean you get to choose who gets your coins.

### Abuse

The wiki will be monitored at all time. Anyone trying to artificially improve his own score, or artificially reduce someone else's score will be excluded from the Contributors Award. The goal of this award is to improve the community work around bitcoin, and not make this wiki a war zone. Should abuse become uncontainable, the contributors award will be stopped, scoring will be computed up to the date the abuse started and bitcoins shared between honest members.

### Scoring

The scoring for each contributor will be made based on the following rules.

#### Text

Of course, text contributions take an important place in the scoring calculation. The following parameters will be taken in account for each contribution:

* Insertion of bulks of text will be scored based on the amount of text submitted. The ratio will be reduced if the text is found on other sites via a search engine (ie. not original text) and based on the number of afterward corrections. If the text is completly removed (and not restored afterward) then it won't be counted. Off-topic inclusions will also be ignored.
* Corrections (typo, etc) will be counted based on the volume of text they apply to, minus the amount of corrections made by other people afterward.
* Adding links to existing bulks of text will only count if the ratio of links is kept low (only the first link to a page on a given page will be counted)

#### Templates

Templates are an important part of the life of a wiki. Templates are scored on the following elements:

* The template must be original. Templates copied from other sites will not be counted.
* The template must be widely used. Scoring will be based on the number of other contributors using a given template.

New uses of a template from a previous session will still be awarded to the original contributors of that template.

#### Talk pages

Modifiers will be given to contributors based on the feedback their receive from users on talk pages. Remember to be courteous at all time for best effect. Those modifiers will be manually collected and only applied to the most notable contributors in order to avoid any abuse.

#### Vote for your contributor

We might try to allow contributors who have earned points in one session to vote for another contributor in the next session.

### Rules change

These rules may be changed should the need arise. If you wish to suggest a change, please use the [[discussion page|Bitcoin_Talk:Contributors_Award]].
