This Wiki is a public resource for the community of Bitcoin users, developers, and businesses as well as anyone interested in Bitcoin.

Because this resource is open to editing by the general public readers should be aware that the material presented here often does not reflect the views of the entire Bitcoin community and may be outdated, incorrect, or outright malicious at times.

## Some advice for editing

Content on the Wiki should generally be factual in nature where possible, but because Bitcoin is relatively new many important subjects are not yet completely understood and are sometimes best described by opinion. When there is controversy the Bitcoin wiki should teach it and explain all the major views. Editors should refrain from asserting ownership over an article and seek compromise where possible. Opinion pieces that are of general community interest can be posted under the users personal namespace. But generally, if you do not want your writing to be edited mercilessly and redistributed at will, then do not submit it here.

While the Wiki doesn't exist to promote any particular businesses or commercial activity, such things are important parts of the Bitcoin ecosystem and get discussed here, but biased editing with a strong pecuniary interest is frowned on and spamming up the wiki with referral links is prohibited. Non-Bitcoin alternatives may, at times, be discussed here especially for comparison purposes or to illustrate a point but this wiki is a Bitcoin community resource and edits which promote competing systems may be frowned on by the community.

To prevent unnecessary drama editors should refrain from adding material which they believe may be unlawful for them or other editors to post. Bitcoin Wiki respects your freedom to communicate but since this is a shared resource you should respect other people's right to be free from the association with your views and their consequences. 

As a small community resource the Bitcoin Wiki is often less formal than generic references like Wikipedia, and because it address a broad community of interests not all pages will be suitable for all readers: Some pages are written for a technical audience about a technical subject and wouldn't serve their intended audience if simplified for the layman. In cases where audience goals conflict and can't be resolved we should ExpandSpace and create new pages to cover the subject from different angles if we need to.

Also, unlike Wikipedia, the Bitcoin Wiki is *not* an encyclopedia, and *should* include things like non-encyclopedia details (eg, exact specifications on service fees, product performance, etc), how-to manuals, etc. There are also no notability requirements.
