from the website:
Site down notice.
[20th of June 2012 - Discontinuation notice](Update): We want to thank all our customers for your business. Unfortunately we underestimated the amount of work and resources required to run a site like ours, esp. the legal and anti-fraud aspects. Since we do not have sufficient time and the resources to continue running the service, we have decided to discontinue it. We wish that we did not have to do this, and it was a difficult decision to make. We would again thank all the customers for your business.

Bitcoinmarket24.com offers Bitcoins 24/7 - anytime during any day. The service is convenient, safe and fast. If you are using instant SEPA you will have your Bitcoins within less than one minute. No lenghty registration process, no unavailability, just a simple, fast and secure way to order Bitcoins.

At the moment traditional SEPA and instant SEPA are offered as payment methods but it is planned to expand the payment methods.

Instant SEPA is available for the following countries:

* Austria
* Belgium
* Germany
* Netherlands
* Switzerland

This service was announced on December 30, 2011 (1.1).

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [BitcoinMarket24](https://bitcoinmarket24.com) website
* [@BitcoinMarket24](http://twitter.com/bitcoinmarket24) Twitter account

##References

1.1: [Bitcoinmarket24.com - instant bitcoin purchase - safe and convenient](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=56091.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
