A "Big Four" bitcoin exchange (1.1) in the world, Bitfinex trading platform is currently in a beta phase (testing phase). The platform is owned and operated by iFinex Inc. (Bvi), and during this final phase the platform is being prepared to operate under a fully licensed model.

##Main Functions

###Bitcoins exchange

The exchange part works like any regular bitcoins exchanges: you put your offer to buy or sell bitcoins. When an order is matched against another, it is executed. 

The exchange wallet type is used for this feature.

###Margin trading

Their margin trading feature is unique in the Bitcoin world. Basically, it allows you to borrow funds from lenders (see next feature) to trade bitcoins. If you make a profit, you get the profit and pay the depositor interests. If you make a loss, you reimburse the depositors the whole borrowed amount + interests.  (4.1)

###Lending

Their lending feature goes hand to hand with the margin trading feature described above. 

If you don't feel like a trader and/or prefer safer investments, this feature is for you. Bitfinex allows you, using your deposit wallets, to lend bitcoins and/or dollars to traders. You can put offers with your chosen terms (which rates, for how long, and how much).

##Fees schedule

###Order Execution



|Volume |Maker fees |Taker fees
|>= 0 BTC |0.1% |0.2%
|>= 500 BTC |0.08% |0.2%
|>= 2000 BTC |0.06% |0.2%
|>= 5000 BTC |0.04% |0.2%
|>= 15000 BTC |0.02% |0.2%
|>= 25000 BTC |0 |0.2%


###Deposits Fee

Bitcoin: 0

International wire: 0.1% (minimum $20.00)

EgoPay: 0.2% (not include charge by Egopay)

###Withdrawals Fee

Bitcoin: 0

International wire: 0.1% (minimum $20.00)

EgoPay: 0 (not include charge by Egopay)

###SWAPS

Charged on your existing swaps, paid by the liquidity provider:	15.0% (of the swaps generated by active contracts)

##Company

Bitfinex Limited has its office in Hong-Kong, with one of our associate living there.

##External Links

* [Bitfinex](https://www.bitfinex.com) web site

##References

1.1: http://www.coindesk.com/price/ Coindesk BPI  
4.1: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=229438.0 Bitfinex OFFICIAL


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
