### Buying bitcoins remains a hassle for a large majority. 

### At Bitit our goal is to make bitcoin available for everyone in less than 10 minutes through our prepaid vouchers and our Bitcoin gift cards. Buy Bitcoin [https://bitit.gift/ online by credit card] or [https://bitit.gift/physical with cash in more than 100K+ Local stores] around the world in a snap.
<br />

**# Bitcoin voucher's benefits**

* Instant Bitcoins with 3DS Banking Cards, Sofort Banking and by cash with Neosurf prepaid vouchers.
* Express Bitcoin delivery.
* No paperwork required.
* Get a full control of the Bitcoin exchange rate.
* Earns points for each order and get a discount on your next Bitit purchase.
* Make a great gift to family & friends.
<br />

**# Supported Countries**<br />
Available in the United States, Canada, and most of Europe.

All European and Canadian residents may buy bitcoin by cash with Neosurf<br />


**# Privacy & Limits**<br />
Bitit is a regulated company and is committed to implementing and maintaining the highest standards of Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML) compliance.

Users can buy up to 25€ of Bitcoin by credit card without paperwork, only by filling their Profile.

After complete account verification users may buy Bitcoin up to 500€ per week by credit card. Users must provide full identity verification, including a selfie and picture of an ID. This limit may be increased if requested.

Neosurf users can buy up to 500€ per week of bitcoin by cash on Bitit.<br />


**#Fees**<br />
All applicable fees are listed on Bitit [Pricing page](https://bitit.gift/pricing)<br />


**# Bitcoin Affiliation Program with Bitit **<br />
Earn up to 20% of [Bitit commission fee](https://bitit.gift/affiliations). Get paid in Bitcoins each week. Lifetime commissions.<br />


**# Contact Us **<br />
Let us know if you have any questions. We read and reply to every message, so please feel free to reach out any time or visit our [Help Center](http://support.bitit.gift/hc/fr)
