[[!template id=infobox_company name="Bitmain Technologies Ltd." native_name=比特大陆科技有限公司 image=[[{{ns:file]]:Logo-bitmain.png270x64pxwebsite=[bitmaintech.com](https://www.bitmaintech.com/)reddit=Bitmain}}

[[!template id=advert]]**Bitmain technologies Limited** is a Chinese IC design company founded in the first quarter of 2013, which specializes in research, development and sales for custom mining chips and miners. We aim to quickly deliver innovative and competitive custom hardware solutions to help the community.  Bitmain is able to provide the most power effective Bitcoin mining solution on today’s market.

##Description
Bitmain is a team of technologists, venture capitalists, entrepreneurs and Bitcoin enthusiasts. Our core members have years of ASIC development experience, and have designed and mass produced several digital signal processing ICs.

We reject some business practice in the community, which is intended to distribute the risk and benefit asymmetrically. We are here to change it:  we will not accept pre-order forever before we feel logically 100% sure that we can deliver on time. There will be no unexpected waiting and failed/delayed taping-out or any other kinds of delaying risks for our customers.

We also give you a 24 Month Warranty to all our Products.

We created a myth in bitcoin community: no pre-orders and shipping on time.  We are earning more and more trust from worldwide customers.

Bitmain also run the [[AntPool]] mining pool.

##DDoS
On or around March 12th, 2015, Bitmain became the victim of a DDoS attack.  The attackers demanded [[!template id=btc]]10 to be paid.  Bitmain instead put the [[!template id=btc]]10 toward a bounty on the attacking individual(s). (3.1) (3.2)

##Customer Service
In part due to the DDoS attack, Bitmain posted additional customer service contact details (4.1):
<!-- can't get {{quote}} to behave with this content --><blockquote style="background-color:#eee; padding:0.5em;">For: None Main land China Customers:

For faster warranty/tech support, please contact 

+1-844-248-6246 option 2 via telephone

Support Ticket: support@bitmain.zendesk.com 

Live Chat<br />
https://v2.zopim.com/widget/livechat.html?key=2ZaJsbRPVUUFCqOE8MmgXgbFFdNYxOBP

Simply Return the defective item to the following address with a Tracking Number.<br />
<nowiki>*</nowiki>90-days from the purchase from the manufacture (not when you purchase it from someone who is reselling it)

Bitmain Warranty<br />
3700 Quebec Street<br />
Unit 100-239<br />
Denver, Colorado 80207<br />
USA

Please include the printed Bitmaintech.com Order Confirmation Page and Printed Return Address and a Brief Description of what is not working for you and a way to reach you

Expired Warranty Item can be serviced for fees. (Cost varies)</blockquote>

##References

3.1: http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/2yor09/important_notice_for_bitmain_customers/  
3.2: http://coinfire.io/2015/03/12/bitmain-fights-back-against-ddos-group/  
4.1: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=799423.msg10814965#msg10814965

