## BITOK.COM

BITOK.COM is a quick, trustworthy and user-friendly platform for trading popular cryptocurrencies.

## HISTORY

Bitcoin Innovations LTD has launched the new digital currency market exchange and cloud mining service with broad variety of fiat money, cryptocoins as well as mining contracts in September, 2014.

## INSTANT BITCOIN PURCHASE OPTION 

Bitok.com supports an instant bitcoin purchase opportunity to allow new users easily deposit and withdraw their funds, and begin trading immediately. 

Bitok.com offers wide range of payment providers, both for deposit and withdrawal, from wire transfers to OKPay, Perfect Money, and Egopay.

## TRADING PAIRS

At Bitok.com, users are able to trade:
	
* BTC/USD
* LTC/USD
* BTC/LTC
* DOGE/USD
	
Bitok.com is continuously working on adding other fiat and digital currencies, as well as most convenient payment processors.

## TRADING

Trading at Bitok.com allows you to actively trade your coins and get your profit on price differences. 

There is a number of features, such as trade history and dynamics, market volume and depth and the current exchange rates that makes managing investments simple and safe. 
The order list allows placing a limit order by setting a certain price for buying or selling bitcoins.

Trading with Bitok.com is profitable due to opportunity of simultaneous bitcoin trading and mining, possible through trading mining contracts (MCs) or GHS (Gigahash per second).

## CLOUD MINING CONTRACTS

A Mining Contract (MC) is a combination of trading commodity and powerful package of mining capacities (GHS). Each MC equals 10 GHS.
'Cloud' mining implies all the mining procedure is done in the cloud, so there is no need to purchase mining equipment and bother with delivery issues, perform its installation, maintain it, pay huge electricity bills.

Mining means getting bitcoins at a relatively lower cost than just buying them. By purchasing Mining Contracts instantly, you earn extra money 'when you sleep' with no loss at downtimes. Until they are sold, purchased GHS mine new bitcoins for you.

Generally, the profit depends on the number of packages purchased and their share or of the total mining capacities operating in the network. Payouts may vary insignificantly due to downtime, unstable hashrate, etc., but virtually power is the main determinant of potential income.

Bitok.com will be selling mining contracts at 10 GH/s for $19 until October 1, 2014. This initial period will be followed by mining contracts being available on the market where the price will be set by supply and demand. Mining is conducted on GHash.IO because of the partnership between Bitok and Ghash.IO, which is more focused on day trading and long term mining investments. Contracts are valid for one year with a guarantee from Bitok.com to buy the contract at the end of the period for current market price. 

## MISSION

As an officially registered company, Bitok.com takes serious precautions to ensure that customers’ personal information and funds remain as securely stored as possible. Trading is extremely fast at Bitok.com. 

## TEAM

Behind Bitok.com there is a young and efficient team of technical professionals, who possess extensive knowledge and experience in IT projects of various direction and complexity. Developers of Bitok.com contribute all their skills and knowledge to the project and are constantly working on improving the services. They believe in what they do and are optimistic about the future of the cryptocurrencies. The goal is to become the most secure and trustworthy place for buying and selling cryptocurrency on the net. 

## SECURITY PLAN

To exclude any fraud attempts, users of Bitok.com are recommended to enable the Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) on their accounts. Bitok.com suggests Google Authenticator 2FA application to its users. 
If needed, detailed logs of users’ actions are available to investigate any issues.

## EXTERNAL LINKS

* [Bitok.com website](http://www.bitok.com)
* [Bitok.com Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/official.bitok)
* [Bitok.com Twitter](https://twitter.com/Bitok_com)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Mining"]]
