Bitstamp.net
A bitcoin [[currency_exchange]] accepting deposits in

* BTC
* EUR (SEPA)
* USD (International wire)
* CHF (International wire)
* GBP (International wire)


The service was announced August 21, 2011 (1.1). BitStamp.net is owned by BitStamp d.o.o. and based in Slovenia.

##Trading

* Buying/selling

A buy/sell order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell/buy order that is at or below the bid amount. 

##Adding funds

* **BTC**
There are no fees incurred when when transferring bitcoins for deposit. Funds are available once confirmed (3 confirms), a process that can take roughly 30minutes.

* **EUR**
Exchange accepts EUR deposits via SEPA transfers, then converts them to USD and credits them to online account. **No deposit fees!**<br/>

* **GBP**
Exchange accepts wire transfers in GBP, then converts them to USD and credits them to online account.<br/>
Charging 0.1% deposit fee(minimum fee = $15)

* **USD**
Exchange accepts international wire transfers in USD, charging 0.1% deposit fee(minimum fee = $15)<br/>
Exchange accepts MtGox - USD redeemable codes, charging 2% fee.<br/>
Exchange supports transfers between Dwolla, Liberty Reserve, MtGox, Cash Bank Deposits, Crypto X Change, Bitcoinica, BTC-E and VirWox via **Bitinstant**.

* **CHF**
Exchange accepts wire transfers in CHF, then converts them to USD and credits them to online account.<br/>
Charging 0.1% deposit fee(minimum fee = $15)

##Fees
BitStamp charges a trading fee of up to 0.5% from each party of successful trades made through the market. The fee appears in the account history next to each trade.

##Withdrawing funds

* **BTC**
Bitcoins may be withdrawn at no charge.

* **EUR**
SEPA withdrawals are charged with fixed 0.90€ fee once your funds are converted to EUR. Minimum amount for SEPA withdrawal is $10,00.

* **GBP**
GBP wire deposits and withdrawals in GBP are supported.<br/>

* **USD**
International wire withdrawals in USD will be charged with 0.09% fee, minimum fee is $15,00. Minimum amount for international withdrawal is $50,00.<br/>
Exchange provides instant and easy transfer to Mt.Gox with 2% fee.

* **CHF**
International wire withdrawals in CHF will be charged with 0.09% fee, minimum fee is $15,00. Minimum amount for international withdrawal is $50,00.<br/>

##Internal transfers
BitStamp allows internal transfer of funds to other users using BitStamp codes. One party withdraws his funds by creating code, which then sends to trusted user who then redeems that code by using deposit BitStamp code option.

##Instant transferrs from/to other exchanges with Bitstamp
Exchange provides simple, quick and cheap transfer of USD currency between exchanges. Fee for transfer is 2% of the amount and is deducted from amount sent/received.
<br/><br/>
<b>Supported exchanges:</b>

* Mt.Gox (USD)

##Instant transfers via other services
**BitInstant**

* Dwolla
* Liberty Reserve
* MtGox
* Cash Bank Deposits
* Crypto X Change
* Bitcoinica
* BTC-E
* VirWox

##Localization
Bitstamp is localizing website with online collaborative online translating tool. Feel free to join and help with translation to your native language.

Link: http://crowdin.net/project/bitstamp 


##API
API is available https://www.bitstamp.net/api/

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [BitStamp](http://www.bitstamp.net) web site
* [@BitStamp](http://twitter.com/#!/BitStamp) Twitter

##References

1.1: [New bitcoin exchange site for USD/BTC](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=38578.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
