[BitVegas](http://www.bitvegas.net/?id=1943) is a Minecraft casino server. Upon joining, players receive 5 play Bitcoins to gamble with. These coins are not exchangeable for real Bitcoins. Once every fifteen minutes, players are gifted .5 mBTC via a chest. These coins are real and can be used to gamble for actual Bitcoins. The server has options to withdraw/deposit Bitcoins. Transactions go through almost instantly and no fees are taken from the player's winnings. All games are provably fair. 

The server currently has the following games:

###Provably Fair
By each game is a box with a check mark. Upon clicking this box the player will receive a link showing information from the current and last round of the game. These pages show that the games are fair.

Examples:

bitvegas.net/v/?&g=roulette&id=157252

bitvegas.net/v/?&g=roulette&id=157253

bitvegas.net/v/?&g=minefield&id=62601

###BlackJack

Your standard BlackJack game. The player receives two cards, as does the dealer. Once the cards are dealt, the player has the option to "hit", or receive another card. At the end of the round, the players with the closest total card face value to 21 wins. If the player's total card value goes over 21 the player loses.

[[!img "BlackJack.png" title="border" size=500x500]]

###Pig Racing

An amusing recreation of horse racing. Four pigs are brought to the track where they wait for thirty seconds. During these thirty seconds, players are shown information such as the pig's chances of winning and the payout of betting on that pig. After the thirty seconds, the pigs race to the finish line. The pig in first place is the winner and the players who had bet on that pig are rewarded.

[[!img "Pig_Races.png" title="border" size=500x500]]

###Poker

*In most modern poker games, the first round of betting begins with one of the players making some form of a forced bet (the ante). In standard poker, each player is betting that the hand he or she has will be the highest ranked. The action then proceeds clockwise around the table and each player in turn must either match the maximum previous bet or fold, losing the amount bet so far and all further interest in the hand. A player who matches a bet may also "raise," or increase the bet. The betting round ends when all players have either matched the last bet or folded. If all but one player fold on any round, then the remaining player collects the pot and may choose to show or conceal their hand. If more than one player remains in contention after the final betting round, the hands are revealed and the player with the winning hand takes the pot. With the exception of initial forced bets, money is only placed into the pot voluntarily by a player who, at least in theory, rationally believes the bet has positive expected value. Thus, while the outcome of any particular hand significantly involves chance, the long-run expectations of the players are determined by their actions chosen on the basis of probability, psychology and game theory.*[(1)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poker)

Currently the server only allows players to use play Bitcoins on Poker, however this should change by the next update.

[[!img "Poker.png" title="border" size=500x500]]

###Roulette

There is a board with thirty six numbers, zero through thirty six. Zero is the only green number, and the numbers from one through thirty six alternate between black and red. Players have the option to bet on individual numbers, corners connecting numbers, sides connecting numbers, dozens of numbers (first, second, third dozen), the color of the number, the column, whether the number will be even or odd, or you can bet on the first or second eighteen numbers. Payouts are directly proportionate to the odds of that particular event occurring. Players are allowed to bet on as many blocks as they like and will receive the payment they earn for every block they win.

[[!img "Roulette.png" size=500x500]]

###MineField

Players place a bet and then are locked in a room with a five by five square of grass. Each block has the potential to be a bomb. If a player mines a bomb, they lose the game. The player is allowed to cash out at any time. If they do this, they will receive their initial bet as well as anything they have won so far. There are two rooms, one has three bombs and the other has five. Both rooms have the same amount of grass. The number of Bitcoins received per non-explosive block mined is proportional to both the number of blocks already mined, the initial bet, and the number of bombs in the room.

[[!img "Mine_Field.png" title="border" size=500x500]]
