### Arguments in favor of increasing the blocksize

* Bigger blocks (more transactions per second)

### Arguments in opposition of increasing the blocksize

* A hard fork requires waiting for sufficient consensus.
* Risk of catastrophic consensus failure[[!template id=clarification_needed]]
* Orphan rate amplification, more reorgs and double-spends due to slower propagation speeds.
* European/American pools at more of a disadvantage compared to the Chinese pools[[!template id=why]]
* No amount of max block size would support all the world's future transactions on the main blockchain (various types of off-chain transactions are the only long-term solution)

## Damage to decentalization

* Bitcoin is only useful if it is decentralized because centralization requires trust. Bitcoins value proposition is trustlessness.
* The larger the hash-rate a single miner controls, the more centralized Bitcoin becomes and the more trust using Bitcoin requires.
* Running your own full node while mining rather than giving another entity the right to your hash-power decreases the hash-rate of large miners. Those who control hash-power are able to control their own hash power if and only if they run a full node.
* Less individuals who control hash-power will run full nodes if running one becomes more expensive.
* Larger blocks leads to more expensive full nodes.
* Therefore, larger blocks lead to less hashers running full nodes, which leads to centralized entities having more power, which makes Bitcoin require more trust, which weakens Bitcoins value proposition.

### Entities positions


|CoinBase|[[!template id=yes]]|

