A [[currency_exchange]] with market for trading between bitcoins and other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, Russian ruble and other cryptocurrencies [[Litecoin]] and [[Namecoin]].  The site has Russian and English user interface translations.

##Features

###Currency pairs
[BTC-E](http://www.btc-e.com) supports the exchange between the major currency pairs, such as:

* BTC/USD
* BTC/RUR (Russian Ruble)
* USD/RUR
* LTC/BTC, LTC/USD
* NMC/BTC

###Deposit options

####BTC
There is no fee for depositing bitcoins or depositing (redeeming) a BTC-e [[redeemable_code]] (BTC).

####USD

* Cash deposit (USD currency) at Post of Russia
* Cash deposit (USD currency) at various banks: (Savings Bank of Russia (Sberbank), Privatbank, RU/UA Terminals, Russian banks, Евросеть (Euroset), Лидер (Lider), Contact, Anelik, UNIStream)
* [[Liberty_Reserve]]
* Webmoney WMZ (with volume discount available (6.1))
* Interkassa.com (VISA, MasterCard, PayPal, LiqPay, etc.)
* Yandex.ru
* LiqPay
* Perfect Money
* Qiwi
* [[OKPay]]
* RBK Money
* Additional digital currencies (НСМЭП (NSMEP), Единый Кошелек (Unified Purse), TeleMoney, moneymail, Unikarta, webcreds.com, z-payment, MTS, Альфа-Клик (Alfa-Click), Megafon, Monexy, Pin-Code)
* BTC-e [[redeemable_code]], including those obtained from [[BitInstant]] (funding options include QIWI, Cyberplat) and AurumXChange
* International Wire Transfer

####EUR

* SEPA bank transfer (fee applies)

####RUR

* QIWI
* LiqPay
* Webmoney WMR
* BTC-e redeemable code
* Bank transfer

###Withdraw options
####BTC
There is no fee to withdraw bitcoins.  Also available for withdrawal to BTC-e redeemable code (BTC).

####USD

* Liberty Reserve
* Webmoney WMZ
* [[PayPal]]
* Perfect Money
* LiqPay
* QIWI
* OKPay
* [[Payza]]/AlertPay
* Epese.com
* Ecoin.cc
* RedPass.com
* Privatbank - USD, UAH
* Savings Bank (Sberbank)
* Telebank
* Alfa Bank
* Wire Transfer
* BTC-E redeemable code (cash out aurumxchange --> MtGox)

####RUB
Withdrawal methods in Rubles.

* QIWI
* LiqPay
* Webmoney WMR
* Яндекс.Деньги (Yandex)
* RBK Money
* Cash deposit into account at Сбербанка России! (Savings Bank Sberbank), Телебанк (Telebank), and АльфаБанк (Alfa Bank)
* Cash in Moscow, Russia (delivery to your address is possible)
* Transferred to credit card - VISA and MasterCard
* BTC-e redeemable code (RUR)
* Bank transfer

##Data Services
###Linux

* [tulpenmanie](https://github.com/3M3RY/tulpenmanie) graphical trading platform

##History

The site was first announced on July 17, 2011 (15.1) with test mode trading.  Live trading began on August 7, 2011 (15.2).

On July 31, 2012 the service reported a security incident in which halted trading and caused financial loss to the exchange.  The exchange says it covered losses from reserves and trading resumed in a matter of hours (15.3).

On August 2, 2012 the service added an API for trading, but still lacks an API for bitcoin withdrawals (something offered by every major exchange).  On August 20, 2012 the service added BTC/RUR and USD/RUR trading markets.  On September 3, 2012 the service added numerous RUR deposit and withdawal methods as well as more USD deposit and withdrawal methods (15.4).

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [BTC-E](http://www.btc-e.com) exchange website

##References

6.1: If the amount to deposit more than 30 WMZ, fee is reduced to 0.08%. Contact support site support via private message for details  
15.1: [[USD]] <->   
15.2: [Btc-e.com](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=29698.msg437237#msg437237)  
15.3: [News / Trade is stopped](https://btc-e.com/news/81)  
15.4: [News / Update commissions deposit & withdrawal + add new methods withdrawal](https://btc-e.com/news/87)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
