#WARNING: btclevels.com SCAM
[BTClevels](http://btclevels.com/) is a scamming website where you can lose a lot of money completely hassle-free by forecasting short-term [[Bitcoin]] exchange rate fluctuations. The smarter you act, the bigger is the chance that you can identify them as a scam by even winning with the system a lot but the btc you will never see, just in the beginning a very little. 
The scam works like this: 

* firstly you do not need an account to win/lose which will signal you trust
* you will make few bets which you propertly will win even.
* you will also reseive the btcs
* as bets for a anonymous account take much longer time then having an account with them you will make an account as you trust them already,- they showed you that they will pay you.
* you sending few BTC to your just created account.
* now you can making ver fast bets (losing faster, but fairly also to say winning faster, if they would ever pay you your winns ;)
* you will of course also test to get your btc back be withdrawing them back to your wallet. That will even work still and your will trust them more.
* As you understand a bit of how the rabit runs with binary option (read more a bit below "the trick to mostly win with binar options") you will send again few btc to your account in the beliefe that you can make a lot of money this there "fairly" page.
After a short time you  will realize that sometimes (rendomly) the oppusite price is locked meaning, lets say the price is beteen 200$ and 2005$ per bitcoin, directed up,- so your bet is UP. Even if the last trade was a sell and therefor the last price was 200$ htey will lock your "bet UP" as bet higher then 205$ rather then higher then 200$. You can easyly come over that by the following trick below:


## The Trick
First of all here is to say you need a bit money in Dollars AND btc to get this work. I would say at least about 10000$ (half in btc & half in dollar. 
So how we start?

Lets say again the btc/dollar course is about 200$ buy and 205$ sell, going up...

* So your traiding idear would be UP
* You would set to sell VERY few btc (your blocker, 5-10btc, depending on the market of cource) for sell at 200.00001, keeping your sell in eye as your do not realy want to sell it and as it would help your to win your bet.
* then you go to your created account on the btclevels scam page amd make as fastes bets you can make that the price will be higher as now at the given time. HURRY, and be concentrated, keeping in eye your blocker not to disapear as well as the bet time.
* you doing this until the bet time shifts. after that (very shortly, about 20s before your bets ends) your would set all your money in dollars to buy btc at 200.00002)
* After you won your bet you could cancel your buy order again and have another run. 

Running like this the game your would make a lot of money in a very short time - you would,- if btclevels.com scam would pay you.
The problem is that they will not pay you more out that your put into the game. aIf your would have, lets say put 3btc into your account for bets, they would just pay you oput a bit more then 3 btc. I believe not even 4btc. After that you will just see on there page "invalit ammount" if you would try to withdraw your legaly won money back to your account.




	
##BTClevels benefits

Orginally that clam themself as:


* A completely fair and transparent way to earn money both on high-rate and low-rate Bitcoin fluctuations. Listings and quotations are taken directly from [[MTGox]] real-time.

* A unique ‘smart trading’ feature. Hedge your positions and never lose a penny.

* A user-friendly and easy-to-understand interface that lets you make around-the-clock bets without registration and much hassle.

* All bets are taken simultaneously. If you place a winning bet, your money will be automatically credited to your bitcoin address.

* Customer support services that work 24/7.



But its all not that.

* fair and transparent: it is not. As I warnt you of the randomly manipulated bet of the oppusit value. Furthermore they do not have any address given, nor a phonenummer,- Ohh they had in the beginning but after starting making this public poining also out to there fake phonenummer they provided they removed them from there webpage.

* If your would never lose a penny they would make no business at all and in case your realy would (almost) never lose a penny they would take keep your win anyway.

* Customer support service 24/7: how may this work without a phonenummer just by email which the just answer as long as they do not own your btcs.

* to the transparency few words more: They server is located in germany at hetzner, there company apears to be in canada but also few links are directed to Netherlands. Its all but not transparent. BE AWARE!!!!



## More links warning about them

* http://www.scamadviser.com/check-website/btclevels.com
* https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=265889.new#new
* http://www.webutation.net/go/review/btclevels.com




##There posted External Links

* [BTClevels](http://btclevels.com/) website
* [(1)](http://finance.yahoo.com/news/bitcoin-binary-options-trading-platform-030100616.html) Yahoo Finance: Bitcoin Binary Options Trading Platform Opens For Trading
##References



[[!tag "Gambling‏"]] [[!tag "Economics‏‏"]]
