An escrow-like service that allows safer payment by securely holding a buyer's coins in escrow until the terms of the sale are met. 

<span style="color:red">Warning: Please be careful with your money.  When sending money to an escrow partner you are trusting that the operator will not abscond with your funds and that the operator maintains secure systems that protect against theft -- internal or external.  It is recommended that you obtain the real-world identity of the operator and ensure that sufficient recourse is available.  Exchanging or storing significant amounts of funds others is not recommended.</span>

##Fees

The service charges a 1% escrow fee which includes potential dispute resolution.

##Dispute Resolution

1. Buyer and Seller Agree to Terms
1. * After Creating the bitcoin escrow at BTCrow.com, both parties agree to terms of the transaction, which includes a description of the merchandise, sale price and method of escrow.
1. Buyer Pays BTCrow.com
1. * The Buyer submits funds to BTCrow. BTCrow.com verifies the payment with network confirmations. Processing time varies depending if the transaction take time to be included into a block.
1. Seller Ships Merchandise
1. * Upon payment verification, the Seller is authorized to ship merchandise and submit tracking information.
1. Buyer Accepts the Merchandise
1. * The Buyer accept or refuse the merchandise. In case of refuse, the buyer initiate a dispute.
1. BTCrow.com Pays the Seller
1. * BTCrow.com pays the Seller in bitcoin for the amount agreed at point no 1. The transaction is complete.

It is strongly recommended to sellers to have proof of item(s) delivery or proof that the service(s) was completed in order for the escrow service to manage disputes.

##History

The site was launched on June 23rd, 2011 (4.1).

In March, 2012 the service had gone offline, reportedly due to an extended distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack (4.2).

On May 28th, 2012 the operator announced partnership with another service, [[BitcoinOPX]] and provided identity information (4.3).

##See Also

* [[Secure_Trading]]

##External Links

* [BTCrow](http://BTCrow.com) web site

##References

4.1: [BTCrow.com - New Bitcoin Escrow Service](http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=21544.0)  
4.2: [Site back online after DDoS](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=21544.msg926817#msg926817)  
4.3: [Trade Bitcoin Options - BitcoinOPX.com](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=84092.0)


[[!tag "Escrow_services"]]
