Btctip is a service that allows Twitter users to send bitcoins to each other using a tweet. Visitors can log in to the website with only their Twitter account.  The site lets users access their account history, to withdraw and to deposit bitcoins.

**Sending bitcoins**

The format for sending bitcoins is:

	#btctip [[recipient]] [[amount]] [[unit]]

For example:

	#btctip @BobOnTwitter 10 centcoins

The permitted units are bitcoins, centcoins, and millicoins.

The variations of each that are recognized by btctip.com are:

bitcoin: bitcoin(s) and btc

centcoin: centcoin(s), bitcent(s), cbtc, and internet(s)

millicoin: millicoin(s), millibit(s), mbtc and woolong(s)

Note that , (comma) is treated the same as . (decimal mark), so for example, 10,2 bitcents will be interpreted as 10.2 bitcents.

A user's tweet can contain other text as well, as long as some segment of it contains the tipping command. 

For example, this would be valid:

	Great post! #btctip @BobOnTwitter 10 centcoins!

After btctip.com has registered a user's tweet, the Twitter account @btctip will post a tweet verifying the transaction, in the following format:

	@Recipient, you received a [[Amount]] BTC tip from @Sender! Log in with Twitter to btctip.com to claim your bitcoin!

##History

The site was launched in beta on March 12th 2012  (2.1). 

-Over the course of the year, centcoin(s) and internet(s) were added as aliases for the cBTC (0.01 BTC) denomination, and millicoin(s) and woolong(s) were added as aliases for the mBTC (0.001 BTC) denomination  (2.2).

-On April 26th 2012, a new feature was introduced that returned tips unclaimed tips after 30 days (later changed to 5 days). Unclaimed tips are those sent to users who have not registered to BTCTip. A reminder Tweet is posted by the BTCTip Twitter account one day before the expiry of the tip to inform the recipient that their donation will be returned to the sender if they do not sign in to btctip.com to register  (2.3).

-On May 16th 2013, a major new feature: an embeddable BTCTip Twitter box for websites, was released  (2.4). 

-On May 22nd 2013, the minimum tip amount was reduced from a centcoin, or 1 cBTC, to a millicoin, or 1 mBTC  (2.5).

##External Links

* [BTCTip](http://www.btctip.com) website (dead link on 7 May 2014)

##References

2.1: [btctip.com- send bitcoins with a tweet](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68320.0)  
2.2: [btctip.com- December 23rd 2012 and May 16th 2013 updates](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68320.0)  
2.3: [btctip.com will be implementing a new feature which returns unclaimed tips](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68320.msg868536#msg868536)  
2.4: [Introducing the BTCTip Tweet Box - microdonations for websites](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68320.msg2164838#msg2164838)  
2.5: [Update: BTCTip now allows tips as small as 1 millicoin (1 mBTC)](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68320.msg2232076#msg2232076)


[[!tag "Services"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
[[!tag "Defunct_products_or_services"]]
