<h1><strong>Bytescape</strong></h1>

<b>Note:</b> Bytescape is no longer experimenting with a Bitcoin based economy after the realization that it could be considered an IVTS under the new FinCEN guidelines. Thankfully, no Bitcoins have ever been withdrawn from the system by a user (whether they were deposited by the user or mixed with other's funds), and any Bitcoins that were originally deposited into the system were returned to the original user only. Sorry for the inconvenience, but we had no intention or knowledge that we might be breaking any laws.

<strong>Bytescape</strong> is a Minecraft community that has been around since early Minecraft alpha. We are open to the public, and welcome anyone that would like to be a part of our community. Recently, we have made the switch to the <strong>Feed the Beast Ultimate</strong> mod pack ([[http://feed-the-beast.com/#download_wrapper client download]]). In the process, we have also integrated our economy with Bitcoin that allows anyone to deposit or withdraw Bitcoins. The economy is completely player managed and items are never created nor destroyed by admins/mods (it is actually disabled) to keep it as fair to everyone as possible. We also have a global market plugin that allows easy buying/selling of items between players from anywhere in the game. Last, but not least, we offer several forms of grief protection that allows our players to easily set up a plot of land and allow/disallow other players from accessing it (you can claim more land the longer you play, and this is one of the few things we offer for sale that isn't player managed).

We are not trying to create a new Bitcoin game out of Minecraft. There are other servers that offer gambling, etc. We are just plain Minecraft with all of the new blocks/items that Feed the Beast Ultimate offers, and a really cool way to buy/sell them using Bitcoins. Occasionally, we do hold contests with prizes as well.

<strong>Server:</strong> mc.bytescape.com

Come visit us, and let us know you found us here!

[[!tag "Games"]]
