A bitcoin [[currency_exchange]]/trading platform site headquartered in USA - Atlanta, GA.

[CampBX](https://CampBX.com/register.php?r=DAJ7d33KZWU) is a platform where you can buy and sell Bitcoins for US Dollars in real-time using advanced order-matching algorithms. Any buy or sell order that you place is matched against a database of other orders. If a perfect match is found, a Bitcoin-to-USD trade is executed instantly. If there are no matching orders at the price you specified, then your order can remain open for up to 31 days. To maintain fairness in trading, CampBX have taken a purely-platform approach and they are never a counter-party to any trade.

This platform was designed from the ground up with stability and security as top priorities, and became the first Bitcoin website to obtain Payment Card Industry (PCI) certification and the McAfee Secure seal of confidence on June 28th, 2011  (1.1).

CampBX is also the first Bitcoin platform to bring advanced features like Margin Trading and Short-selling, and have several more innovative features in pipeline.

There are no fees required to open a CampBX account.



##Headquarter and Offices
This platform is operated by BulBul Investments LLC, which is a corporate entity registered with the State of Georgia, and is headquartered in Atlanta at 2002 Summit Blvd #300, Atlanta, GA 30319. At launch time CampBX maintained a 4-people development office for a 3-month period; however as the development-phase ended they have switched to a Flex-office plan to save costs.



##Major Features
CampBX aims to be the feature leader, and this vision is reflected in a comprehensive list of features:

<ul> 
<li> Security certification from McAfee</li>
<li> Advanced trading options with AON/FOK/Market</li> 
<li> STOPLOSS and Short-Selling available soon </li>
<li> Trading API available</li>
<li> Wallet API available </li>
<li> CBX Instant Bitcoin Transfers Feature </li>
<li> Stoploss / Custom Order Expiry Date/Time </li>
<li> SMS (Text Message) Notifications </li> 
<li> Two-Factor Authentication </li> 
<li> Based in USA - Atlanta </li> 
</ul>



##Adding Funds
Funds deposited with the exchange for escrow towards placing a buy order include the following.

###BTC

* Adding bitcoins to the account balance incurs no fees.

###USD

* [[Dwolla]] (instant).  There is a $1,000 per-day transfer limit regardless of deposit or withdrawal.
* P2P bank transfer (available through Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and ING, credited after 3 business days)
* Personal Check
* USPS Postal Money Order (No fee to receive, costs only $1.55 to send $1,000)
* Canada Post Money Order (USD)

##Withdrawing Funds

###BTC

* CampBX does not have any fees for Bitcoin withdrawals.  The default withdrawal limit is 500 Bitcoins per-day; this limit can be increased by submitting a ticket to the help-desk.  Account-to-account (A2A) transfers to another Camp BX account can be made.  In the accountholder's profile is the CBX Instant Transfer which the sender needs to know.

###USD

* [[Dwolla]] (instant).  There is a $1,000 per-day transfer limit regardless of deposit or withdrawal.
* ACH Withdrwal (Direct deposit)
* Bank transfer (Domestic wire)
* International Bank transfer (International wire)
* USPS Postal Money Order

##Trading

CampBX is the only Bitcoin exchanges to offer both market orders as well as limit orders.  Market orders get filled regardless of the price. 
Additional Advanced Trading options include Fill-or-Kill and All-or-Nothing fills.  Fill-or-Kill means that if the order cannot immediately be matched, it will be cancelled automatically.  All-or-Nothing means that the order will match only when the entire quantity in the order can be traded.  One option is to set a custom expiry date for each order, which allows setting up advanced trading strategies.
The trading algorithms implement trading functionality described in the following SEC Investor Bulletin as closely as possible:
­http://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/trading101basics.pdf

CampBX also provides Quick Trades for casual Bitcoin users, where you enter the quantity and the desired price for buying or selling Bitcoins, and execute the trade. All prices entered are "Limit" prices, where the platform will find a matching trade at given price or better.

Additionally, though currently disabled, the exchange's trading site refers to margin trading (buying on margin and shorting) -- something that no other exchange has offered yet.

###Fees

Trades on the exchange incur a commission (fee) of 0.55%.  (Volume discounts available)

##Data Services
###Linux

* [Dojima](https://github.com/3M3RY/Dojima) market client

##History

A story of firsts:

CampBX was the first Bitcoin trading platform to launch on Testnet  (14.1). This allowed Bitcoin users to try out CampBX without risking their Bitcoins on an unknown website. Following a major  CBX Testnet opened for public trial on June 21st, and in the following 15 days handled trading of ~90,000 testnet coins.
CampBX trade engine supported multiple advanced trading features like Margin Trading, Short Selling, Advanced Order Execution like FOK (Fill-or-Kill), (AON) All-or-Nothing orders, Stoploss, and custom expiry dates for orders.  

On June 28th, we went through a rigorous third-party security audit by McAfee Hacker Safe (McAfee Secure) and two more white-hat auditors.  As our commitment to transparency, we shared the results of the audit in a public forum  (14.2).  CampBX obtained compliance with 7 security standards including PCI (Payment Card Industry) compliance, another major first in the Bitcoin world.  

We ended the testnet phase and opened for trading following the Independence Day on July 5th, 2011  (14.3).  As we grow, we are determined to continue this tradition of security, transparency, and customer service.



##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]



##External Links

* [CampBX Home Page](https://CampBX.com/register.php?r=DAJ7d33KZWU)
* [[Twitter]] Feed for CampBX
* [[Facebook]] page for CampBX
* [API Reference](https://campbx.com/api.php)
* [Office Location and FAQ](https://campbx.com/faq.php)
* [Helpdesk for CampBX](https://campbx.com/contact.php)
* [CampBX Terms of Use (User Agreement)](https://CampBX.com/register.php?r=DAJ7d33KZWU)

##References

1.1: [CampBX Hacker / Security Audit: Results](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=23938.0)  
14.1: [CampBX Platform in Beta: Margin Trading, Short Selling, and Advanced Orders](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=20777.0)  
14.2: [CampBX Hacker / Security Audit: Results](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=23938.0)  
14.3: [CampBX Launch - Free Trades for All Bxlievers!](http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=26202.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
