[[!img "CAVIRTEX_logo.jpg" size=200x200]]<br/><br/>CAVIRTEX is Canada’s first and largest bitcoin exchange. In its three years of operation, CAVIRTEX has facilitated over $100 Million in trading between individuals, merchants, and market makers. 
##Trading

* Buying/selling

Limit Orders: A buy or sell order is executed, either partially of fully, when the order can matched against a counter order that meets a user defined price limit. 

##Adding funds

###BTC
There are no fees charged when transferring bitcoins for deposit. Funds are credited to CAVIRTEX accounts once the transaction receives 4 confirmations. <br/>


###CAD
CAVIRTEX accepts Interac Online, Direct Bank withdawal via EFT, In-Person Deposits & Wire Tranfer Deposits<br/>

##Withdrawing funds

###CAD
CAVIRTEX allows for EFT. <br/>

###BTC
There are no fees charged when transferring bitcoins for withdrawal. <br/>

##Fees
CAVIRTEX charges a trading fee on both sides for the execution of every order placed. The percentage of the trade that the fee will be varies according to the trailing 30-day trading volume of the user. The rate starts at 0.8% and decreases to 0.3% as volume increases.  Refer to the [CAVIRTEX pricing page](https://cavirtex.com/fees) to determine fee levels.  The fees that are charged appear in user account ledgers.


##History

CAVIRTEX.com opened its digital doors in December of 2012. 

In the spring of 2015, CAVIRTEX was acquired by [[Coinsetter]].

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [[https://cavirtex.com]] web site
* [@CAVIRTEX](https://twitter.com/cavirtex) Twitter

##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "ECNs"]]
[[!tag "Liquidity"]]
