A Bitcoin exchange platform in the Philippines that believes Bitcoin is for everyone. Founded in 2013, coins.ph accept Bitcoin payments online, from anyone, anywhere- including who don't have access to credit cards or bank accounts. Webiste enable all Filipinos (including 95 million unbanked individuals) to easily and safely buy and sell Bitcoin. It takes as a mission to improve lives of millions through Bitcoin technology.

##Buy Bitcoin

### Philippine Pesos (PHP)
The website offers different ways to pay the money in exchange of your received Bitcoins:

####Cash deposit
	
* BPI - Cash deposit in any BPI office (Bank of the Philippines Islands)
* BDO - Cash deposit in any BDO office (Banco De Oro)
* BPI Express Online - Transfer funds Online

####Mobile money

* Gcash - Cash transfer using mobile phone with a Globe number

##Sell Bitcoin

### Philippine Pesos (PHP)

Coins.ph offers differents ways to send the money:

####Bank

* BPI (No fee) 
* BPI Family (No fee) 
* BDO (No fee) 
* China Bank (No fee) 
* CITI Bank (No fee) 
* EastWest (No fee) 
* MayBank (No fee) 
* MetroBank (PHP 50) 
* Planters Bank (No fee) 
* PNB (No fee) 
* RCBC (No fee) 
* Standard Chartered (No fee) 
* Union Bank (No fee) 

####Cash pickup

* Cebuana Lhuillier Pera Padala (PHP 30) 
* LBC Peso Padala (PHP 30) 

####Mobile money

* Globe GCash (PHP 10) 

##Rate and fees

The rates are based on the current BTC/USD market rate.

## SEA Market Snapshot

* Population: 610 Million
* GDP: 2.1 Trilion (equivalent to Russia)
* Credit Card Penetration: under 5%
Low credit card penetration is cited as the number one obstacle to e-commerce growth is Asia. The majority of sales are completed COD (cash-on-delivery) or with OTC (over the counter) payments, both of which have high customer drop-off rates.

##Founders

### Ron Hose

Prior to coins.ph, Ron was a founding partner at Innovation Endeavors, an early stage venture capital fund backed by Eric Schmidt. Ron was also the co-founder of TokBox (acquired by Telefonica), a consumer video conferencing company. TokBox was backed by Sequoia Capital, Bain Capital, Stanford University and some of Silicon Valleys best-known angel investors. Ron holds a Bachelors and Masters degree from Cornell University, where he graduated at the top of his class. Ron is also an active investor and adviser to several Silicon Valley startups.

### Runar Petursson

Runar has been building scalable production web applications for over 15 years. He has also built High Frequency Trading platforms, with extensive experience in high volume, low latency systems. He started trading Bitcoin in 2011 and looks forward to the day he can quit carrying cash around.

##See Also

* [[Selling_bitcoins]]
* [[Buying_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Coins.ph](http://coins.ph) website
* Coins.ph [Facebook Page](https://www.facebook.com/coinsph)
* Coins.ph [Blog](http://blog.coins.ph/)

##References




[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
