[CoinMate.io](https://www.coinmate.io) is a European Bitcoin exchange that runs on a secure trading platform protected by banking grade security and SSL. The exchange operates a BTC/EUR market, and offers deposits and withdrawals in Euro, Czech Koruna (CZK), Polish Zloty (PLN), OKPay, Moneypolo and Sofort (deposit only). It uses the maker/taker model with makers having a 0.05% fee, and takers having a 0.35% fee. It also offers the top ten traders on the exchange a share of monthly fees, and offers a referral program passing on 50% of fees from referred users for six months from date of registration.

The exchange is open to individuals and companies across the world, although it does not accept US citizens to register on the exchange. Client funds are secured using Trezor wallets.

##Coinmate Deposit Options

* [[Euro_SEPA_transfer]] Exchange accepts EUR deposits via SEPA transfers
* [[Czech_Koruna]] / [[CZK]] will be converted into EUR
* [[Polish_Zloty]] / [[PLN]] will be converted into EUR
* [[OKPay]] 
* [[Bitcoin]]
* [[Moneypolo]]
* [[Sofort]]

##Coinmate Withdrawal Options

* [[Euro_SEPA_transfer]]
* [[Czech_Koruna]] / [[CZK]]
* [[Polish_Zloty]] / [[PLN]]
* [[OKPay]] 
* [[ATM_Card]] - via Dagensia
* [[Bitcoin]]
* [[Moneypolo]]

##Trading

* Buying/selling

A buy/sell order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell/buy order that is at or below the bid amount. Traders can use an instant order, or speculate on price movements with market orders.

* Quick Buying/Quick selling

CoinMate features a quick buy/sell function, which will use open orders to complete the order, without leaving uncompleted orders.

##Account Security
Key actions on the account are protected by email 2FA, and the exchange also supports Google Authenticator.

##API
API keys can be generated, and allowed to trade or withdraw bitcoin from the exchange. Documentation on the API is available http://docs.coinmate.apiary.io/

##References




[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Bitcoin"]]
[[!tag "Bitcoin_wallet"]]
[[!tag "ATM_card"]]
