**CryptoPayment** is a MediaWiki extension to limit spam by requiring a small one-time bitcoin payment before a user is allowed to edit or create pages.  While the payment is deliberately small for a normal user, it presents a barrier to a mass-spammer.  Funds sent to this Wiki will be used offset moderate expenses (hosting, DDoS protection, security maintenance).  If any money is remaining it will go toward funding Bitcoin development.

##Usage

In order to enable your user account to edit pages, log in and visit [[Special:CryptoPayment]], and you'll be given an address to which to send a small amount of bitcoins.

Once you send the requested bitcoin amount to the address displayed and your payment is confirmed, your account will automatically be added to the [trusted group](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=Special:ListUsers&group=trusted) and be afforded edit privileges.

###Confirmations

Payments will be considered paid after it is confirmed in a Bitcoin block.

## Code
Source will be released after the backend interface to bitcoind is rewritten.

##Uso (Español)

Si pagas tu acceso a la wiki en inglés (subdominio en.bitcoin.it/wiki) no podrás editar las páginas en Español. Para editar la wiki en Español (subdominio es.bitcoin.it/wiki/) el enlace a Especial:CryptoPayment es este https://es.bitcoin.it/wiki/Especial:CryptoPayment

##Questions or comments?

If you have questions, comments or a support request, please post in the [Bitcoin Wiki Support forum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=168.0).  We also have a chatroom at [#bitcoin-wiki on freenode IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#bitcoin-wiki).  Please ask your question and be prepared to stick around for a few hours before you get a response.
