**Crypto X Change**

Based in Australia, we enable buyers and sellers from all over the world to trade national currencies in and out of Bitcoin.
<br><br>
Crypto X Change has been built with painstaking attention to security. It’s been developed with the due diligence you should expect from a company that handles your money. 
<br><br>
We’ve enabled customer deposits in over 25+ national currencies, and withdraws in over 100+. Using our proprietary funding system, you can have your deposits arrive in your account usually in less than 24 hours. That’s an industry first. We also accept MtGox voucher codes, so you can move your money here immediately.

Fast, professional trading engine. No hiccups. No lost orders. No weird behaviors. We provide a fully-transparent order book, with no dark pools, and zero market manipulation. Our professional API let’s you write custom scripts and connect your trading software. 

Crypto X Change has been built with painstaking attention to security. It’s been developed with the due diligence you should expect from a company that handles your money. Learn why we’re more secure.

Live chat support 24/7. Call us at all hours, with local phone numbers for most countries. Emails are answered quickly, and we provide forums for users to discuss the topics that are important to them. Our communication lines are open and swift.

We know Bitcoin is the currency of the future, and we’re here to stay and nurture it. We share your passion for this new phenomenon, and have invested significant time and funding into creating the best exchange on the market. We’ll adapt and evolve with our customers’ needs, and we’ve got an exciting pipeline of innovations launching over the coming months.

Stay Tuned : [www.cryptoxchanger.com](http://www.cryptoxchanger.com)

Inquiries: contact@cryptoxchanger.com or Phone: +61280050602
