
* [Crypto-Lottery.NET](http://crypto-lottery.net) a lottery native based on bitcoin, the algorithm seems like the mining algorithm of bitcoin. The winner was depended on the data of blockchain, so nobody can chage it!It supports btc, ltc, dogecoin and some other altcoins.

##Introduce
Crypto-Lottery is a lottery spirited by Satoshi, it works like scratch card. it's native based on bitcoin, the algorithm seems like the mining algorithm of bitcoin. The winner was depended on the data of blockchain, so nobody can chage it!It supports btc, ltc, dogecoin and some other altcoins.

[[!img "Crypto-lottery.png‎‎" size=500x500]]


##Basic Rules
Lucky guys share 90% of electroinc coins。First guy takes 60%; Send and Third guys share 20%; Third, 4th and 5th guys share 10%. 10% left for keeping us working, and we are always trying to reduce it.
##Algorithm
The algorithm is sourced from bitcoin. For every transaction, we generates some lottery. And at the end time of lottery, we will calculate a hash for all and compare them. The minimum one is the lucky one.
##Auto pay back
If you are the lucky guys, system will pay back automatically to your address.

##Public and Fair
Our algorithm is public , and the result of the calculation is unique, so it's impossible to cheat.Only one address is used, so it's easy to check on the blockchain. And we also provider details of calculation for downloading.
##High payout ratio
No taxes, so we can provide a high payout ratio.

##External Links

* [Crypto-Lottery.NET](http://crypto-lottery.net) website

[[!tag "Games"]]
[[!tag "Gambling"]]
[[!tag "Casino"]]
