##About

[Darkbit](http://darkbit.co.in/) -*BITCOIN WALLET WITH INTEGRATED MIXER*

Secure wallet with new technology of bitcoin mixing.
It renders your bitcoins completely untraceable, even to the most persistent forensic investigator. When you withdraw your coins, however, they were from a completely different wallet, a wallet located in untraceable 'onionland' where there is no history whatsoever of your coins.

**Protected**

Powered by the world’s most widely deployed DDoS protection technology, Arbor Cloud delivers a unique, integrated combination of on-premise and cloud-based mitigation for protection from the full spectrum of modern DDoS attacks. On-premise protection guards against state-exhausting attacks aimed at the security infrastructure of the enterprise.

**Quick**

Darkbit is the quickest bitcoin mixing service. With new technology of bitcoin mixing used by Darkbit, process of laundering is almost instant.

**Secure**

Darkbit renders your bitcoins completely untraceable, even to the most persistent forensic investigator. When you withdraw your coins, however, we send them from a completely different wallet, a wallet located in untraceable 'onionland' where there is no history whatsoever of your coins.

**Logs**

The server does not need to keep any logs and transactions are only kept in memory for a short time. However if the server was compromised or under subpoena it could be force to keep logs. If this were to happen although you haven't gained any privacy you haven't lost any either.

##See Also

* [[Anonymity]]

* [[Mixing_service]]

##External links

[Darkbit](http://darkbit.co.in/) website
	
[[!tag "Mixing_Services"]]
[[!tag "Anonymity‏‎"]]
[[!tag "Services"]]
[[!tag "Bitcoin_wallet"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
[[!tag "HybridEWallets"]]
[[!tag "Wallets"]]
[[!tag "Security"]]
