A [[exchange|currency_exchange]] site where bitcoins may be bought or sold.

This service is also useful for using bitcoins to send remittance payments to India, Bangladesh, Malaysia and Singapore.  Bitcoins may be purchased with cash deposit at banks in these countries and in Nepal as well.

The price at which the bitcoins are bought or sold is established at the time the order is placed.

##Buying Bitcoins

The options for paying for the Bitcoin purchase are:

* INR (Indian rupee) - Cash deposit at banks in India
* BDT (Bangladeshi taka) - Cash deposit at banks in Bangladesh
* NPR (Nepalese rupee) - Cash deposit at banks in Nepal
* MYR (Malaysian ringitt) - Cash deposit at banks in Malaysia
* SGD (Singaporean dollar) - Cash deposit at banks in Singapore, bank (net) transfer
* USD (U.S. dollar) - Funds sent via Western Union, Moneygram, [[OKPay]] or [Citibank global funds transfer](http://www.citibank.com.sg/gcb/personal_banking/demo/cgt_demo/index.htm)

The exchange will also sell bitcoins by converting from other digital e-currencies including [[Liberty_Reserve]].

##Selling Bitcoins

The cash out options for receiving the proceeds from the sale of bitcoins are:

* INR (Indian rupee) - Online funds transfer or cash deposited at banks in India, or Western Union and Moneygram (domestic)
* BDT (Bangladeshi taka) - Cash deposit at banks in Bangladesh (minimum $100 of value or more)
* MYR (Malaysian ringitt) - Cash deposit at banks in Malaysia
* SGD (Singaporean dollar) - Cash deposit at banks in Singapore, bank (net) transfer
* USD (U.S. dollar) - Funds sent via Western Union, Moneygram, or Citibank global funds transfer, [[Paypal]], [[Skrill]]/Moneybookers, [[Payza]]/AlertPay virtual and OKPay

This exchange will also convert bitcoins to other digital e-currencies including Liberty Reserve, Webmoney, EGOPay, Perfect Money, and C-gold.

Liberty Reserve, Webmoney and PerfectMoney may be used to purchase a Virtual credit card (VCC) through this exchange.  This VCC is non-reloadable and only useful for verifying a PayPal or Payza/AlertPay account.

Additonally, the exchange will convert Mt. Gox redeemable code into Liberty Reserve, PayPal, Skrill/Moneybookers, Payza/AlertPay, C-gold, Perfect Money, WebMoney and EGOPay.

##History

The exchange is operated by NET MARKETING SERVICES based out of Singapore.  The exchange has been trading bitcoins since August, 2012 or earlier.


##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [ecurrencyzone.com ECurrencyZone.com](http://www.ecurrencyzone.net/buy.php)

##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
