[[!img "Electrum_logo.png" size=400x400]][[!img "Capture-Electrum.png" class="right" size=600x600 title="screenshot of Electrum with its Qt gui"]]

[Electrum](http://ecdsa.org/electrum) is a lightweight Bitcoin client, based on a client-server protocol. 
It was released on november 5, 2011.

**Main features:**

* Encrypted wallet: the file that contains your bitcoins is protected with a password. You are protected from thieves.
* Deterministic key generation: If you lose your wallet, you can recover it from its seed. You are protected from your own mistakes.
* Instant on: the client does not download the blockchain, it requests that information from a server. No delays, always up-to-date.
* Transactions are signed locally: Your private keys are not shared with the server. You do not have to trust the server with your money.
* Freedom and Privacy: The server does not store user accounts. You are not tied to a particular server, and the server does not need to know you.
* No scripts: Electrum does not download any script. A compromised server cannot send you arbitrary code and steal your bitcoins.
* No single point of failure: The server code is open source, anyone can run a server.
* Firewall friendly: The client does not need to open a port, it simply polls the server for updates.
* Free software: Gnu GPL v3. Anyone can audit the code.
* Written in Python. The code is short, and easy to review.
* Support for Bitcoin URIs, signed URIs and Bitcoin aliases


__TOC__

###Graphical User Interfaces
Electrum has two GUIs: one that is based on Gtk, and a newer one based on Qt. The Qt GUI is enabled by default. To use the gtk interface, type:
<pre>
$ ./electrum -g gtk
</pre>
In addition, Electrum has a rich set of commands for the command line interface.

###Brain Wallet

Electrum uses a type 2 deterministic key generation algorithm.
This means that all the keys are derived from a seed.

Typical seeds have 128 bits of entropy. Electrum provides mnemonic code in order to represent the seed.

Example:

* hexadecimal: 431a62f1c86555d3c45e5c4d9e10c8c7 
* mnemonic: "constant forest adore false green weave stop guy fur freeze giggle clock"

You can display the seed with the command line interface. Example:
<pre>
$ ./electrum seed
Password:
431a62f1c86555d3c45e5c4d9e10c8c7 "constant forest adore false green weave stop guy fur freeze giggle clock"
</pre>

###Multiple wallets
Electrum uses one single file per wallet. Your default wallet is located in your user account.
If you want to use another wallet, use the -w option followed by the wallet path and name:
<pre>
$ ./electrum -w /path/to/my/wallet/wallet_name
</pre>

###Export and import addresses

You can export your private keys using the 'addresses' command:
<pre>
$ ./electrum addresses -ak
Password:
1LGoehbyeX4QBEPK1a6dhyaoMQZfqg5LKX:5JBSttEGhjEcPidSovW66Rin2EZ6LEHZ2qx8Pu2RqqNaDTBVWaF   
1KcsBJa2cCxVkGJfSsg5bUeXN7Y5uLa8mP:5KiP4uiNT6KG8jnXbainCM8rDWRrgxt3PAyut4FFpDoCo1Rh6VM   
1PXsn7LVXTccGhJPTUL8r2EGB4fF9kvex3:5Kj8mvBJReyk8xEBMx5cTnciQCxto5JmudiTPkqwMcd61Kf1Jqc   
1KteSFTAphyByLTtUfFiVQ9s7fMVmx7c2h:5JeZ3FTbWcksLt3PKydd5U9p952UQRHwv3LoxzCA9LZ7V2bku5p   
1GE5ZChAobeTEPLHDCDDKTSg3XvLkcQFjS:5JwtGEygTwF2nouhRVzW3w5DWZd1sCgxLtnd1v51wjkbUrp5sqH   
12YNehfAoYTiwjTXULwaZqTCauu2D61fq6:5Jvcq19ePCXKcVun4n7US99CsrEByUK2kgxXBA3rBVBqYZjhfwD  [change] 
</pre>
There are two options in this example:

* option -a means: 'list all addresses'. if you don't use it, change addresses are not listed.
* option -k means: display the private keys

You can also import addresses into an electrum wallet, with the 'import' command:
<pre>
$ ./electrum import 1LGoehbyeX4QBEPK1a6dhyaoMQZfqg5LKX:5JBSttEGhjEcPidSovW66Rin2EZ6LEHZ2qx8Pu2RqqNaDTBVWaF
keypair imported
</pre>
Note that imported keys do not belong to the deterministic sequence of your wallet; if you import keys in a wallet, you must back it up!

###Offline wallet

It is possible to create a transaction on an offline computer,
and to broadcast them from another computer, with a wallet that does not have the seed or private keys.

####How to prepare an offline wallet

* step 1: create a wallet on your offline computer
<pre>
$ ./electrum -w wallet create
</pre>

* step 2: save the seed of your wallet to a file that will remain on the offline computer:
<pre>
$ ./electrum -w wallet seed | awk '{print $1}'> seedfile
</pre>

* step 3: blank the seed in your wallet file. 
<pre>
$ electrum deseed 
</pre>
to avoid confusion, let us rename it:
<pre>
mv wallet wallet.no_seed
</pre>

* step 4: transfer the wallet.no_seed file to the online computer.
For example, copy the wallet file to a usb stick:
<pre>
$ cp wallet.no_seed /my/usb/wallet.no_seed
</pre>
and once you have plugged the usb key to the online computer:
<pre>
$ cp /my/usb/wallet.no_seed ./wallet.no_seed
</pre>

* step 5: run electrum on the online computer; this will synchronize your wallet with the bitcoin network, and you will be able to monitor incoming transactions:
<pre>
./electrum -w wallet.no_seed
</pre>

####How to send a transaction with an offline wallet

* step 1: copy the synchronized wallet file to your offline computer
<pre>
$ cp wallet.no_seed /usb/stick/wallet.no_seed
</pre>

* step 2: edit the wallet file and restore the seed :
<pre>
$ cat w | sed "s/trololololo/`cat seedfile`/g" > wallet.seed
</pre>
you may also do this manually with a file editor if you do not know how to use sed.

* step 3: create the transaction
<pre>
./electrum -w wallet.seed mktx <recipient> <amount>  >  tx_file
</pre>

* step 4: with the usb stick, copy the transaction to the online computer:
<pre>
$cp tx_file /usb/tx_file
</pre>
and, on the online computer:
<pre>
$cp /usb/tx_file tx_file
</pre>

* step 5: broadcast the transaction:
<pre>
./electrum sendtx  `cat tx_file`
</pre>

### List of commands



|command |description |syntax |requires password |needs to be online
|---|---|---|---|---
|help |display the help for a command |help [[command]]|no |no
|validateaddress |check is the argument is a valid bitcoin address |validateaddress <address>|no |no
|balance |shows the balance of your wallet or of an address |balance [[address]]|no |yes
|contacts |print your list of contacts |contacts |no |no
|create |create a new wallet |create |no |no
|restore |restore a wallet from seed |restore |no |yes
|payto |create and broadcast a transaction |payto [sourceaddr](-s)[changeaddr](-c)[fee](-f)<address><amount>|yes |yes
|mktx |create a transaction and dump it |mktx [sourceaddr](-s)[changeaddr](-c)[fee](-f)<address><amount>|yes |no
|sendtx |broadcast a transaction |sendtx <tx>|no |yes
|password |update your password |password |yes |no
|addresses |show your list of addresses, optionally with private keys. |addresses [[-a]][[-b]][[-k]]|iff -k |no
|history |print the transaction history |history |no |yes
|label |change the label of a transaction or address |label <label>|no |no
|seed |print your seed |seed |yes |no
|import |import a keypair |import <address:private_key> |yes |no
|signmessage |sign a message (as in bitcoind) |signmessage <address><message>|yes |no
|verifymessage |verify a message (as in bitcoind) |verifymessage <address><signature><message>|no |no
|eval |call python eval |eval <expression>|no |no



##History

Electrum was announced November 5, 2011 (10.1).

##See Also

* [[Thin_Client_Security]]

##External Links

* [Electrum](http://ecdsa.org/electrum) project website
* [Electrum](https://gitorious.org/electrum) project source (gitorius)

##References

10.1: [Electrum - a new thin client](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=50936.0)


[[!tag "Clients"]]
[[!tag "Open_Source"]]
