A [[Full_Reserve_Banking]] or 100% reserve banking system is one in which banks must hold reserves for 100% of on-demand liabilities. This means that should on-demand creditors all simultaneously ask for repayment, the bank will be able to honor all its obligations. This contrasts with a system of [[Fractional_Reserve_Banking]].

Term-deposits and other time liabilities are not limited by a full reserve banking policy. However the bank should plan to have enough reserves when their term expires and these debts become enforceable. "**The date on which the bank's obligations fall due must not precede the date on which its corresponding claims can be realized**. Only thus can the danger of insolvency be avoided." (Ludwig von Mises. The Theory of Money and Credit. 1912).


## Proof of Reserves

In the Bitcoin world, inasmuch as exchanges have acted like banks by holding user Bitcoin balances, we have seen instances of [[Fractional_Reserve_Banking]] practices and also bank-runs leading to insolvency. Most notably in the case of [[Mt._Gox]]. Since then Bitcoin exchanges and other companies acting as Bitcoin custodians have started to offer cryptographic [[Proof_of_Reserves]], [[Multisignature]] vaults, third party audits and other ways for users to verify that the company's Bitcoin liabilities in the event of insolvency do not exceed reserves. 

[[Vaultoro]], [[Kraken]], [[BitStamp]] or [[Uphold]] are some of the companies that pioneered [[Proof_of_Reserves]] levels of transparency.
