If you have followed a link to this page from reddit or elsewhere discussing Mike Hearn's assurance contracts proposal to fund network security, please see [the discussion on bitcointalk](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157141.msg1665332#msg1665332) for the original document. Below is a general discussion of how network security is funded now and could be in the future, including Mike's proposal.

<hr/>

What Bitcoin provides is a means to determine what is the consensus version
of the transaction history, with the consensus determined by what a majority of
hashing power applied to the proof of work problem by miners accepts as the
true history. Since those who own Bitcoins, and who have access to hashing
power, are not necessarily the same group there needs to be a mechanism for the
former to fund the latter. The risk is that mechanism failing, and the majority
of hashing power acting in a way that is against the wishes of the majority of
economic interests.

An attacker with a majority of hashing power can either publish blocks they
mine as they mine them, or withhold them. The former simply makes it impossible
to get transactions confirmed that the attacker does not wish to be confirmed.
The latter however can be used to rewrite the blockchain after the fact,
causing transactions that appeared to be confirmed to become unconfirmed and
vulnerable to reversal. In addition the attacker can exploit [[Transaction_Malleability]] to make it impossible for those transactions to ever be included
in the blockchain again.

## What is security?

The hashing power majority does not need to constitute a single individual or
coherent group. For instance the economic majority may see [[fungibility]] as
important, and thus want to ensure transaction outputs can not be blacklisted (2.1) to prevent transactions spending them from being confirmed,
even if those outputs are known to be involved with illegal activity such as theft or fraud.
However the actions of mining pools are usually public knowledge; which blocks
they mine is usually published on the pool website. If mining a transaction
output known to be involved in illegal activity is made illegal, mining pools
may independently seek out sources of information on transaction outputs known
to be involved in illegal activity, and prohibit transactions spending those
outputs from the blocks they mine, as well as delibrately trying to mine blocks
that would [[orphan blocks|Orphan_Block]] with such transactions.

Similarly it could be made illegal to mine a transaction if the identity of the
person making the transaction is not known, in conjunction with ways for
transactions to make that identity public. Again, even if the economic majority
would prefer to be able to make anonymous transactions, the hashing power
majority may not want to take that risk.

Conversely the opposite may be true in either example - what "security" is may not always be obvious or easily agreed upon.

## Inflation Subsidy

Currently each block [[creates 25 BTC|Controlled_Currency_Supply]] as the block
reward; as of April 2013 that inflates the currency supply by about 11% per
year, in effect transferring 11% of the value of all the Bitcoins in existence
to miners to pay for the security they provide. However, every four years the
block reward is decreased by half, thus halving the overall inflation subsidy
that pays miners.

The inflation subsidy pays miners directly from Bitcoin as a whole; in effect
everyone holding Bitcoins is paying for security directly. However at some
point it will become small enough that Bitcoin could be attacked by someone
with very little resources. In addition a miner can still collect the inflation
subsidy without including any transactions at all in the blocks they mine, an activity that can be seen as an attack. (3.1)

It is predicted that the inflation subsidy will reach less than 1% of the
Bitcoin nominal market cap sometime in 2033. However that figure is subject to
the amount of [[lost_coins]] from the early days of Bitcoin; it is unknown what
the market cap of coins with owners able to spend them actually is or will be.

## Transaction Fees

Transactions may include [[fees|transaction_fees]] which are given to the miner
who included the transaction in a block. These fees can range from 0% to 100%
of the transaction inputs technically speaking, although what is economically
practical is a subset of that.

Fees can align the economic interests of Bitcoin users with the interests of
miners. For instance in the above example of anonymous transactions fees can
encourage miners to mine anonymous transactions regardless of the legal risk,
or to take (possibly expensive) measures to reduce that risk.

### The Blocksize Limit

Currently blocks are limited to 1MB in size, and further limited by "gentlemans
agreement" in the form of a 500KB default maximum. While miners can choose to
mine blocks exceeding the 500KB limit, the 1MB limit is fixed and any block
larger than it is invalid; block space is a scarce resource. Provided that the
demand for transactions is greater than about [[seven|Maximum_transaction_rate]] we can expect transaction fees to be greater than the marginal
costs required to accept a transaction, thus creating a profit that can be used
to fund the operation of hashing power.

### Off-chain Transactions

If making a transaction becomes too expensive it can become worthwhile to use an [[off-chain payment system|Off-Chain_Transactions]] to move the funds instead, either one denominated in Bitcoins, or in a different currency entirely. The availability of off-chain transactions limits the maximum fees that miners can charge, in turn limiting the value of transactions as a way to fund security.

## Alternatives

If transaction fees and the inflation subsidy do not pay for adequate security
alternatives exist. In particular users who own Bitcoins, yet do not perform
transactions, possibly because they are holding onto their Bitcoins as an
investment and/or use off-chain transactions, only pay for security through the
inflation subsidy.

In addition one approach to the [[scalability problem|scalability]] posed by
the current 1MB blocksize limit is to remove or increase that limit. Without
the blocksize limit it is expected that transaction fees will fall to the
[[marginal_costs_of_a_transaction]], which means that fees will not pay for any
security at all.

### Individual

As individuals Bitcoin owners can fund network security in a variety of ways,
including artifical fee-paying transactions, paying abnormally high fees,
donating directly to known miners, and operating their own mining equipment.
The latter two methods have the advantage that the donator has control over the
policy followed by the miner being funded.

However mining is a public good: any individual can also simply hope that
others will fund security for them, also known as the
[free rider problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_rider_problem).

### Assurance Contracts

An assurance contract, also known as a provision point mechanism, is a game
theoretic mechanism and a financial technology that facilitates the voluntary
creation of public goods and club goods in the face of the free rider
problem. (9.1)

The free rider problem is that there may be actions that would benefit a large
group of people, but once the action is taken, there is no way to exclude those
who did not pay for the action from the benefits. In Bitcoin the problem is
that mining is costly and benefits everyone who owns Bitcoins and/or performs
transactions. A mining assurance contract needs to be constructed in such a way
that participants agree that if some large amount of funds are commited, those
funds will go to mining in some way, with the amount set to be large enough for
a sufficiently high percentage of the economic activity of Bitcoin must have
participated to avoid the free rider problem.

Bitcoin already supports assurance contracts as a transaction
type (9.2) - for a
mining assurance contract the transaction output would be set to either an
[[anyone can spend|Script#Anyone-Can-Spend_Outputs]] output, or an address owned
by a specific miner. However as-is they have a serious problem: a miner can
always collect the funds pledged to date by simply adding a sufficient amount
of their own funds to the outstanding contract, and mining that transaction
themselves, thus turning the contract into a simple
donation. (9.3)
(modulo the small chance of the block being orphaned; if the chance is large, the assurance contract is not encouraging orderly mining) The problem can be mitigated somewhat by forcing donators to reveal their identity in a provable way, but then high participation is difficult to achieve.

With [[nLockTime]] a transaction can be created where the miner who will
actually collect it is unknown in advance. As the deadline approaches, if the
contract is not fully funded, participants double-spend their pledged
transaction outputs to invalidate the contract. However this mechanism has the
problem that anyone can make the contract fail, even if it is fully funded.
That problem can be solved if Bitcoin's scripting language is extended to allow
for transaction outputs that can only be spent by transactions following
certain forms - the outputs would be locked to the contract until some time
after the contract
expires. (9.4)

## References

2.1: [Decentralised crime fighting using private set intersection protocols](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157130.0)  
3.1: [Miners that refuse to include transactions are becoming a problem](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=69423.0)  
9.1: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assurance_contract  
9.2: [[Contracts#Example_3:_Assurance_contracts]]  
9.3: [[https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157141.msg1821770#msg1821770]]  
9.4: [[https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157141.msg1822138#msg1822138]]


* [Bitcointalk thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=157141.0)
[[!tag "Technical"]]
