A Bitcoin currency exchange which operates a BTC/SEK market based in Sweden.

##Trading

###Buying/selling

You specify the quantity of Bitcoins you wish to buy/sell at a price.<br\>

Once you have submitted a trade, the following chain of events take place : <br\>

	

1. FYB will try to fill your order with other pending orders at the same or better price than you indicated.<br\>

In other words if you try to buy 1BTC at 100kr, FYB will attempt to fill your order with the lowest selling price orders up till 100kr.<br\>

If there are sell orders below 100kr, you will be filled at a better rate.

	

2. If your entire order is filled, execution stops.<br\> If there is a partial fill(ie. only 0.8BTC could be bought at/below 100kr) then the remaining qty is listed as a pending order(Buy Pending Order 0.2BTC at 100kr)

	

##Adding funds

	

###BTC

There are no fees incurred when depositing bitcoins for deposit.<br\>

Deposited coins require 6 confirmations and are reflected in the account balance on the next login.

	

###SEK

There is currently 1 supported method for SEK Deposits<br\>

####Online Bank Transfer

A screenshot should always be taken and saved to resolve any potential issues.<br\>

	

##Withdrawing funds

	

###BTC

Bitcoins may be withdrawn for 0.0005BTC(includes Bitcoin Network fee).

	

###SEK & Others(ie NOK/DKK/EUR etc)

There is no fee to withdraw SEK to almost any Bank account.

	

##Fees

A fee of 0.8% is charged in the longed currency of any executed trade.

	

##History

The exchange was launched on the 1st of July 2013.

	

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]

* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

	

##External Links

* [FYB-SE](https://www.fybse.se) web site

	

##References




	

[[!tag "Exchanges"]]

[[!tag "EWallets"]]
