A currency exchange which operates a BTC/SGD market based in Singapore.

##Trading
###Buying/selling
You specify the quantity of Bitcoins you wish to buy/sell at a price.<br\>
Once you have submitted a trade, the following chain of events take place : <br\>

1. FYB will try to fill your order with other pending orders at the same or better price than you indicated.<br\> 
In other words if you try to buy 1BTC at $10, Fyb will try to fill your order with the lowest selling price orders up till $10.<br\>
If there are sell orders below $10, you will be filled at a better rate. 

2. If your entire order is filled, execution stops.<br\> If there is a partial fill(ie. only 0.8BTC could be bought at/below $10) then the remaining qty is listed as a pending order(Buy Pending Order 0.2BTC at $10)

##Adding funds

###BTC
There are no fees incurred when depositing bitcoins for deposit.<br\>
Deposited coins require 6 confirmations before they are reflected in the account balance.

###SGD
There are 2 supported methods for SGD Deposits<br\>
####Online Bank Transfer
A screenshot should always be taken and saved to resolve any potential issues.<br\>

####Anonymous Cash Deposit at any UOB ATM in Singapore
A unique account code is to be written on the deposit receipt.<br\> 
Depositor is then required to email a picture of the receipt to the exchange within 48hrs.

##Withdrawing funds

###BTC
Bitcoins may be withdrawn for 0.0005BTC(Bitcoin Network fee). 

###SGD
There is no fee to withdraw SGD to a Singapore Bank account. 

##Fees
A fee of 0.6% is charged in the longed currency of any executed trade.

##History
The exchange was launched on 3rd January 2013 to coincide with Bitcoin's 4th anniversary.

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [FYB-SG](https://www.fybsg.com) web site

##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
