Gatecoin is an international financial institution for digital currencies. Available for the moment is an [[exchange|currency_exchange]] for trading bitcoins, litecoins, and several fiat currencies (USD, HKD, EUR, CHF,…).

Gatecoin is Money-Service Operator licensed in Hong-Kong and incubated by the Hong-Kong Science Technology Parks (HKSTP) and Tsinghua University.


##History

The online platform launched publicly in Q1 2015. Gatecoin is based in Hong Kong and operated by Gatecoin Ltd, incorporated on July 24th, 2013 in Hong Kong, SAR. Gatecoin won the 2014 Best Start-Up Prize for Central and East Asia at Talent Unleashed. Richard Branson and Steve Wozniak were part of the jury. Gatecoin co-founders are active members of the bitcoin community. Co-found and CEO Aurélien MENANT is one of the founding members of the Bitcoin Association of Hong Kong. Gatecoin regularly participates in conferences such as the Bitcoin Expo 2014 in Shanghai, the Inside Bitcoin conferences 2014 in Hong Kong, Paris 2014 and Singapore 2015.

Gatecoin also created the website coincharities.org that works like Kickstarter that accepts donations in bitcoins.

##Fees

Gatecoin offers 15 days of free trading for new users after making their first deposit. After that period, the fees depend on volumes and status:

[][]
|<20|0.6
|<50|0.5
|<100|0.45
|<200|0.4
|>200|0.35




|Minimal Trading Fees |0.35%|0.1%|0.05%
|Account Pricing|Free|BTC 0.8/month|BTC 0.8/month
|VIP Gateway|NO|YES|YES
|VPN & FIX Access|NO|NO|YES


Source: https://gatecoin.com/public/feeschedule

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Gatecoin.com](https://www.gatecoin.com) web site

##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
