**GLobal Bitcoin Stock Exchange**

The Global Bitcoin Stock Exchange is a form of exchange that provides services to brokers and traders to trade stocks, bonds and other securities listed with the exchange.

The service provides the following featuers:

	* Issue shares to raise capital
	* Pay dividends to shareholders
	* Put resolutions to shareholders and get their vote
	* Issue and sell bonds
	* Borrow from and lend to the market
	* And trade all of the above with other traders on the market

##Adding Funds

Funds for the purchase of shares comes from the user's BTC account on GLBSE.

Bitcoins sent to the user's Bitcoin address for deposit must confirm before they will show as being available.  The threshold for the number of confirmations that GLBSE requires is the standard six confirmations on the blockchain.

##Withdrawing Funds

Proceeds from sales of shares add to the user's BTC account on GLBSE.  Bitcoins can be withdrawn at any time.  Some withdrawals, particularly larger ones, may be delayed if the funds in the service's hot wallet is insufficient and funds from cold storage must be first made available.

##History

The service comes from the first bitcoin company BitcoinGlobal.  The site entered testing phase under an internal code name before being opened with a round 3 of testing on April 27, 2011 (4.1) and launch soon after.

A version 2.0 with a vastly revamped architecture was launched on March 24, 2012 (4.2).

##See Also

* [[Stock Exchanges|tags/Stock_Exchanges]]

##External Links

* [GLBSE](http://glbse.com) web site
* [@GLBSE](http://twitter.com/glbse) exchange ticker on Twitter
* [@BitcoinGLobal](http://twitter.com/bitcoinglobal) company Twitter account
* [[!template id=freenode_irc GLBSE]] Talk regarding the GLBSE trading platform
* [[!template id=freenode_irc bitcoin-assets]] Discussion of securities and other asset investments.

##References

4.1: [Stock Exchange testing, round 3](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6500.msg94943#msg94943)  
4.2: [GLBSE2.0 has launched!](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=73910.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Stock_Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Bonds_Markets"]]
[[!tag "Futures_Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Investing"]]
[[!tag "Crowdfunding"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
