
GoCoin is a PayPal alternative to pay with Bitcoin or Litecoin. We empower merchants to accept Bitcoin and Litecoin at checkout so they don’t have to worry about volatility or security risks.  GoCoin's open API and tools provide the foundation for easy payment integration. With GoCoin, you can be the first to capitalize on the Bitcoin and Litecoin revolution. 

##Merchant Tools

For merchants all you have to do is accept the direct deposit into your bank account. We do the rest!  GoCoin's enables shoppers to pay for their order using BitCoin or Litecoin.

##Developers

Whether you are a software professional working in eCommerce or an entrepreneur interested in creating the next “killer app,” our open API and tools provide the foundation for easy payment integration. Designed to easily accommodate emerging digital currencies

##NGO's & Fundraisers

We understand how difficult fundraising can be for organizations! With GoCoin, you can be the first to capitalize on the digital currency revolution.

##History

GoCoin was formed in July 2013 under the laws of Singapore and serves customers in the US, Europe and Asia.


##External Links

* [GoCoin](http://www.gocoin.com) GoCoin - Official Site

##In the News

* [GoCoin First to Enable Merchants to Accept Litecoin on the International Alt-Currency Payment Platform](http://finance.yahoo.com/news/gocoin-first-enable-merchants-accept-042933567.html) 


##References



[[!tag "Clients‏‎"]]
[[!tag "ECommerce‏‎"]]
[[!tag "Economics‏‎"]]
[[!tag "Exchanges‏‎"]]
[[!tag "Financial‏‎"]]
[[!tag "Shopping_Cart_Interfaces"]]
[[!tag "Payment_Processors"]]
[[!tag "Bitcoin_payment_systems"]]
