[gribble](http://gribble.sourceforge.net/) is a modified Supybot IRC bot, carrying some useful bitcoin-related commands and factoids. The bot's command sequence is ';;', to issue any command just start a line with two semicolons. You can also issue inline commands with two commas.

It is present on #bitcoin-dev (bitcoin information queries), #bitcoin-market (real time streaming quotes from bitcoinmarket.com and mtgox.com), #bitcoin-otc (facilitate over-the-counter trading, with the OTC order book and OTC web of trust). You can also PM commands to gribble and it will PM back.

##General Info

To get help on any command, try 'help <command>', to get a list of bitcoin-related commands, run 'apropos bc', and to get a list of factoids, run command 'facts', and click on the link supplied.

##List of commands

###Mining/network/hashrate stats

* **bc,blocks** - show the current number of blocks in the bitcoin block chain
* **bc,calc** - given a hash rate in Khps, calculate the expected average time to generate a block, at current difficulty. For example, to see the average time for 1000 Khps, run 'bc,calc 1000'.
* **bc,calcd** - given a hash rate in Khps, and a difficulty level, calculate the expected average time to generate a block at that difficulty. For example, to see the average time for 1000 Khps at difficulty 1, run 'bc,calc 1000 1'.
* **bc,diff** - show the current generation difficulty
* **bc,diffchange** - show estimated percent change in difficulty
* **bc,estimate** - show the estimate of the next difficulty (4.1)
* **bc,gen** - given the hash rate in Khps, calculate expected BTC generation per day and per hour, at current difficulty.
* **bc,gend** - given the hash rate in Khps, and a difficulty level, calculate expected BTC generation per day and per hour at that difficulty.
* **bc,hextarget** - show the current difficulty target in hex.
* **bc,nethash** - current 3-day estimate of network hash power, in Ghps.
* **bc,nexttarget** - show the block at which the next difficulty change will take place
* **bc,interval** - show the average time between blocks, over the past 1000 blocks. If given optional integer argument, use that many blocks for the estimate.
* **bc,prob** - show the probability of getting at least one block at given Khps, in a given time period. E.g., to see probability of getting a block at 1000 Khps, in 2 years and 1 week, try 'bc,prob 1000 2y 1w'. Time takes input in years, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds.
* **bc,spotestimate** - current 3-day estimate of network power, in terms of difficulty.
* **bc,stats** - show some statistics about the block chain - number of blocks, difficulty, estimated next difficulty target, time to next difficulty
* **bc,timetonext** - show estimated time to reach the next difficulty target
* **bc,totalbc** - show total number of bitcoins in existence.


Big kudos goes out to theymos for providing a web interface to [real time statistics about the bitcoin block chain](http://blockexplorer.com/q/).

###Markets and exchange rates

* **bc,bcm** - show the market snapshot from bitcoinmarket.com
* **bc,mtgox** - show the market snapshot for mtgox.com
* **bc,avgprc** - show average 24h, 7d, and 30d trading prices of BTC in various currencies.
* **bc,24hprc** - show average 24h price of BTC in USD.
* **bc,convert** - convert bitcoin price, based on MtGox last, to currency you specify. e.g., try 'bc,convert eur' for euros.
* **bc,fx** - show various currency exchange rates
* **bc,xau** - show price of gold in BTC
* **ticker** - show pretty-printed mtgox ticker. Takes optional argument of '--bid', '--ask', '--last', '--high', or '--low', to show just that numeric value (useful for command nesting in calculations)
* **bids** - given a numeric argument, shows how many total btc are being demanded on MtGox at or over the given price. If optional '--under' argument given, looks under the price.
* **asks** - given a numeric argument, shows how many total btc are being offered on MtGox at or below given price. If optional '--over' argument given, looks over the price.

###Mining pool statistics

* **bc,slushpool** - show the mining hash rate of the [slush mining pool](http://mining.bitcoin.cz), in Khps.
* **bc,eligius** - show the mining hash rate of the Eligius mining pool, in Khps
* **bc,swepool** - show the mining hash rate of the Swepool mining pool, in Khps
* **bc,btcguild** - show the mining hash rate of the Btcguild mining pool, in Khps
* **bc,deepbit** - show the mining hash rate of the Deepbit mining pool, in Khps

###Other

* **bc,help** - show list of 'bc,' commands - same as 'apropos bc'.
* **bc,wiki** - fetch a link to a page in this wiki, based on a search string. For example, to see a link to this page, try 'bc,wiki gribble'. 

###bitcoin-otc related info

* See [OTC guide](http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/Using_bitcoin-otc) about using the order book
* See [OTC GPG guide](http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/GPG_authentication) about using the gpg authentication system
* See [Web of Trust guide](http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/OTC_Rating_System) about using the rating system/web of trust

###General commands

The above list is specifically for bitcoin-related commands. See [this page](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/gribble/index.php?title=Using_Gribble_on_Sourceforge) for list and help of most commonly used non-bitcoin-related gribble commands. You can find more helpful info on the [gribble](http://gribble.sourceforge.net/) project page, or by exploring the bot with 'list' and 'help' commands.

##References

4.1: [Estimate is usually wildly inaccurate for 100-200 blocks after a difficulty change due to insufficient sample size.](http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=3247.0)


##Factoids

* [factoids for #bitcoin-dev channel](http://gribble.dreamhosters.com/viewfactoids.php?db=%23bitcoin-dev)
* [factoids for #bitcoin-otc channel](http://gribble.dreamhosters.com/viewfactoids.php?db=%23bitcoin-otc)

##Examples

	<me> ;;bc,blocks
	<gribble> 96009

	<me> Check out the current difficulty! ,,bc,diff
	<gribble> 8078.19525793

	<me> Here is a list of all gribble bitcoin commands: ,,(apropos bc)
	<gribble> Alias bc,bcm, Alias bc,blocks, Alias bc,btcex, Alias bc,calc, Alias bc,diff, Alias bc,estimate, Alias bc,mtgox, Alias bc,nexttarget, Alias bc,stats, Alias bc,timetonext, and Alias bc,totalbc

	<me> ;;list
	<gribble> Admin, Alias, Anonymous, [[...]]

	<me> ;;list Alias
	<gribble> ?, about, add, bc,bcm [[...]], sfwikisearch, sl, slap, smack, [[...]]

	<me> ;;sl bitcoin
	<gribble> http://www.bitcoin.org/  Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer digital currency. Peer-to-peer (P2P) means [[...]]

	<me> Some commands have more than one argument. Surround with parens.  
	<me> e.g., Is your wallet safe?  ,,(bc,wiki secure wallet)
	<gribble> https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Securing_your_wallet  Apr 6, 2011 ... However a few [[...]]

	<me> ;;calc 25 USD in EUR
	<gribble> 25 US dollars = 17.2248 euros
