## Hashop.IO

[Hashop.IO](http://hashop.io) is one of the leading Cloud Mining platforms that allows users to earn Bitcoins through collective mining. The users receive rewards right after purchasing cloud-based mining powers. There are four pricing options available — 1GH/s, 5GH/s, 10GH/s and 20GH/s. 



|Type|Cloud Mining Platform
|Founded|30 October 2013
|Register Locaion |Tenancy 10, Marina House, Eden Island, Mahe, Seychelles 
|Website|[Hashop.IO](http://hashop.io)



### Overview

The website allows the users to calculate their profit depending on what mining plan they choose. Hashop.io guarantees daily payouts and no additional fees except the maintenance fee. The user is required to make a one-time payment that implies a 2-year contract. The company accepts credit cards, wire transfer and Bitcoin payments via Bitpay, BIPS and Coinbase. Hashop.io has an on-going discount system. In addition according to the company’s promotional scheme, the users can receive a higher reward if they choose to receive the reward 20 days after mining. Hashop.io provides 24/7 customer support to handle various issues. 

### Pricing options

[Hashop.IO](http://hashop.io) gives its users a possibility to select from four different pricing plans with various discounts — 5 Ghash/s for $69 instead of $139, 10 Ghash/s for $136 instead of $269, 20 Ghash/s for $269 instead of $529 and 50 Ghash/s for $649 instead of $1450. Cloud miners are given the possibility to calculate their profit from different mining schemes. All of the plans imply daily payouts, low power cost, and professional technical support. The users signs a two-year contract that can be renewed after it expires. The user has to simply make a one-time payment for the selected plan. There are numerous payment methods available, for example, payments via digital wallets, credit cards and wireless transfers.

### Fees

[Hashop.IO](http://hashop.io) charges a maintenance electricity fee of $ 0.00045 per every hour of mining for every Giga hash. The fee must be paid before the user can start mining. The miner can ask for a refund within the first 7 days after payment. The refund will be made through the same payment method used by the miner. After 7 days [Hashop.io](http://hashop.io) gives the miner the opportunity of instantly converting GH/s to Bitcoins. The conversion price is calculated according to the market value of miner’s GH/s minus 15% fee.
