This page aims to be the best resource for new users to understand how Bitcoin wallets work, and how to use them.

## Introduction

To use Bitcoin, some sort of wallet is needed. There are [several wallet programs](http://bitcoin.org/clients.html) from you to choose from, as well as a web wallet called [My Wallet](http://blockchain.info/wallet/). Here is a [full list of Bitcoin wallets](http://bitcoinx.io/wallets). 

## Security
Before proceeding, you should [[make sure your computer system is secure|Securing_your_wallet#Making_a_secure_workspace]].

## How to use My Wallet
The following demonstrates how to use My Wallet, but most of it applies to any other client you choose.

1. [Open an account](http://blockchain.info/wallet/)
1. [[Choose a strong password|Securing_your_wallet#Password_Strength]]
	1. **Note** - there is no "reset your password" feature. You must not lose your password.
1. Recommended: Associate an email address with the account, for backup purposes.
1. You now have a [[Bitcoin Address|Address]], which you can use to receive payments - just email your address to another person, and he can send money directly to this address.
	1. **Note** - anyone who knows your address might be able to analyze your transactions and estimate how much Bitcoins you own. [Understand that Bitcoin is pseudonymous](http://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/52/how-anonymous-are-bitcoin-transactions), not anonymous.
1. Understand that your wallet can contain numerous bitcoin addresses. It is a good practice to generate a new receiving address for each incoming transaction, to increase anonymity.
1. You can now [[get some Bitcoins ... for free|How_to_get_free_Bitcoins?]]. Make sure to test it, try sending a few (milli)bitcoins to someone and get the hang of it.
1. If you want to own some more Bitcoins, proceed to [[Buying_Bitcoins_(the_newbie_version)]]

## How to use another client
The other clients are similar in principle to My Wallet, but there are a few important differences:

1. You need to download a software to your computer to use them (make sure to only download form a trusted source ... if unsure, ask)
1. You have to take care to [[make a secure backup of your wallet|Backup#Backup]].


[[!tag "Introduction"]]
