A Bitcoin exchange, which operates a BTC/INR market for deposit and withdrawal.

##Trading

* Buying/selling

A buy/sell order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell/buy order that is at or below the bid amount. 

##Adding funds

###BTC
There are no fees incurred when when transferring bitcoins for deposit. Funds are available once confirmed (3 confirms), a process that can take roughly 30minutes. 

###INR
Exchange accepts NEFT\RTGS funds transfer from anywhere inside india and also accepts internation wiretransfers in INR, no deposit fee<br/>

##Withdrawing funds

###BTC
Bitcoins may be withdrawn at 0.01 BTC per transaction.  Withdrawals can be sent to a bitcoin address.

###INR
Domestic withdrawals in INR will be charged with 0.99% fee, minimum fee is INR 99.<br/>

##Fees
iCoin charges a trading fee from each party of successful trades made through the market. The rate for new accounts is flat 0.49%.  Refer to the [(1)](https://i-co.in/Fees_summary.htm) to determine fee schedule.  The fee that was charged appears in the account history next to each trade.

##Account Security

##Language Support

The site has support following languages:

* English

##API
TODO

##Data Services

##History

The exchange was announced on May 19 2013 i-co.in is owned by S.V.E and based in India.

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [iCoin](https://i-co.in) web site
* [@iCoin](https://twitter.com/icoinv) Twitter

##References



[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
