ʈA [[exchange|currency_exchange]] offering USD (BTC/USD) trading.  For EUR (BTC/EUR) market of a simlar name see [[Intersango]].

Traders add funds and then place orders to buy and sell.  Intersango.us acts as an escrow. The site charges no trading fees.

Funds are credited after trading immediately to accounts wherein they can be withdrawn.

[[Bitcoin_Consultancy]] operates the Intersango.us USD exchange as well as the [[Britcoin]] GBP exchange and the [[Intersango]] EUR exchange.

##Trading
###Buying

A buy order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell order that is at or below the bid amount.

###Selling

A sell order is executed partially or in full when the price asked can be matched against a buy order that is at or above the ask amount.

###Dark Pool
No support for dark pools exist.

##Fees
###Trading

Free (for a limited time).

###Adding Funds

####BTC

There are no fees incurred when when transferring bitcoins for deposit.  Funds are available once [[confirmed|confirmation]] (6 confirms), a process that can take roughly an hour.

####Dwolla USD

The exchange charges no fees for adding funds using Dwolla.

####USD Bank transfer

USD funds may be deposited as an ACH transaction or as a wire transfer.

###Withdrawing Funds

####BTC
Bitcoins may be withdrawn at no charge.

####Dwolla USD

The $0.25 USD Dwolla transaction fee is the only charge for withdrawing funds.

##API
Unknown.

##History

The BTC/USD exchange was launched on July 17, 2011 (16.1).  The Intersango [[open source|tags/Open_Source]] software that the exchange runs on was announced on March 17, 2011 (16.2).


##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]
* [[Intersango]]

##External Links

* [Intersango.us](https://intersango.us) USD exchange website
* [Intersango](http://gitorious.org/intersango) exchange project on Gitorious

##References

16.1: [intersango.us USD exchange is now live](http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=29566.0)  
16.2: [Free Bitcoin exchange software- Intersango](http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=4579.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
