A [[exchange|currency_exchange]] offering multiple trading markets for trading bitcoins against multiple currencies.

Traders add funds and then place orders to buy and sell.  Intersango acts as an escrow. The site charges no trading fees.

[[Bitcoin_Consultancy]] operates the exchange.

Intersango has a trading API [[Intersango/API]]

##Trading
###Buying

A buy order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell order that is at or below the bid amount.

###Selling

A sell order is executed partially or in full when the price asked can be matched against a buy order that is at or above the ask amount.


No Fee (for a limited time).

##Adding Funds
###BTC

There are no fees incurred when when transferring bitcoins for deposit.  Funds are available once [[confirmed|confirmation]] (4 confirms), a process that can take roughly forty minutes.

###EUR
The exchange accepts SEPA bank transfers for deposit.  A 5 PLN fee is taken by the bank. No additional fees is taken.

###USD
The exchange accepts [[Dwolla]] transfers (no fee), bank wire transfers and ACH.  There are no fees.

###GBP
The exchange's GBP trading is still handled through their [[Britcoin]] brand though that market eventually will trade on Intersango,

##Withdrawing Funds

###BTC
Bitcoins may be withdrawn at no charge.

###EUR
Withdrawals as SEPA transfers.  A fee of 5 PLN is taken by the bank.  No additional fee is charged.

###USD
Withdrawals are through [[Dwolla]].  There is no fee incurred from the exchange for withdrawing funds.

###GBP
The exchange's GBP trading is still handled through their [[Britcoin]] brand though that market eventually will trade on Intersango,

##History

The service was launched on July 6, 2011 (15.1).  The Intersango [[open source|tags/Open_Source]] software that the exchange runs on was announced on March 17, 2011 (15.2).  In September, 2011 the exchange begain using a new version of the Intersango open source exchange project with two currency markets (BTC/EUR, BTC/USD) live under the Intersango brand and plans made for the third (BTC/GBP) when [[Britcoin]] accounts are migrated at a future date.

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [Intersango](https://intersango.com) EUR exchange website
* [Intersango](http://gitorious.org/intersango) exchange project on Gitorious

##References

15.1: [Intersango.com EUR exchange is now live](http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=26543.0)  
15.2: [Free Bitcoin exchange software- Intersango](http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=4579.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
