For the incredibly lazy and/or incompetent web developer, present is the lazy man's bitcoin API (copied from [a forum post](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4324.msg77187#msg77187)):

##Problem

Lazy web designer wants to use bitcoins without dealing with installing bitcoin on a server, installing a shopping cart interface, or using ugly merchant services with callbacks.

##Solution for sending bitcoins

Use the [MtGox API](https://mtgox.com/support/tradeAPI) which allows you to use the offchain payment network.

##Solution for receiving bitcoins

1. Input a list of bitcoin receiving addresses to your database
1. Give a bitcoin address to a potential customer
1. Have the customer tell you when they have sent the coins and have at least 1 confirmation (you can choose a number higher than 1 if you are worried about double-spending)
1. Check blockexplorer to see if they sent the right amount (i.e. http://blockexplorer.com/q/getreceivedbyaddress/19hMEAaRMbEhfSkeU4GT8mgSuyR4t4M6TH/1) - the /1 is the number of confirmations you require
1. Give them what they paid for
1. After a reasonable amount of time has passed, you can re-use the address for another customer


##Risks

###External Service

BlockExplorer is a service that is provided by a private party.  There is no guarantee that the information provided by BlockExplorer matches the blockchain.

There have not been any reports that BlockExplorer has reported transaction data incorrectly.

###Double Spending

A merchant is exposed to a [[double-spending]] attack when recognizing a payment before it has been [[confirmed|confirmation]] with a sufficient number of blocks.

For an attacker to be successful with this double spend tactic a significant effort is required and thus the risk of this attack being made against the typical retail merchant is pretty minimal.  It would not be advisable for a merchant with little to no recourse against an attacker to accept payment without a sufficient number of confirmations however.

##See Also

* [[BitAddress]] Generate address and private key pairs for an offline wallet
* [[BitcoinNotify]] Register addresses and receive email or SMS alerts when a payment to that address occurs

[[de:API_für_Faule]]

[[!tag "Developer"]]
