The [libbitcoin-network](https://github.com/libbitcoin/libbitcoin-network) library is a partial implementation of the [[Bitcoin P2P network protocol|Protocol_documentation]]. Excluded are all sub-protocols that require access to a blockchain. The [[libbitcoin-node|Libbitcoin_Node]] library extends this P2P networking capability and incorporates [[libbitcoin-blockchain|Libbitcoin_Blockchain]] in order to implement a [[full node|Full_node]]. The [[libbitcoin-explorer|Libbitcoin_Explorer]] library uses the P2P networking capability to post transactions to the P2P network.

##Example
	#include <future>
	#include <bitcoin/network.hpp>
	
	// Send a transaction to a single P2P node.
	int main(int argc, char* argv[])
	{
	using namespace bc;
	
	// Decode a base16-encoded Bitcoin transaction. 
	data_chunk decoded;
	if (argc < 1  !decode_base16(decoded, argv[[0]]))
	return -1;
	
	// Parse the decoded transaction.
	const auto tx = chain::transaction::factory_from_data(decoded);
	
	// Configure the P2P network session for best performance.
	auto settings = network::settings::mainnet;
	settings.inbound_port = 0;
	settings.host_pool_capacity = 0;
	settings.outbound_connections = 0;
	settings.relay_transactions = false;
	
	// Start a network session.
	network::p2p network(settings);
	
	// Declare completion signal.
	std::promise<nowiki><code></nowiki> complete;
	
	const auto send_handler = [[&complete]](const code& ec)
	{
	complete.set_value(ec);
	};
	
	const auto connect_handler = [&tx , &send_handler](&complete,)(
	const code& ec, network::channel::ptr node)
	{
	if (ec)
	complete.set_value(ec);
	else
	node->send(tx, send_handler);
	};
	
	// Wait for completion and return result.
	return complete.get_future().get() ? -1 : 0;
	}

##History

* The P2P protocol was originally contained within the [[libbitcoin|Libbitcoin_Common]] library.

* In the winter of 2014 William Swanson reorganized libbitcoin sources (3.1) in accordance with the roadmap (3.2) agreed in Toronto earlier that year.

* Later sources were moved into the libbitcoin::network namespace, and by early 2016 the namespace was forked into its own repository and integrated with dependent repositories as of version 3.

##Dependencies

* [boost](http://www.boost.org)
* [[libbitcoin|Libbitcoin_Common]]

##See Also

* [[Libbitcoin]]

##References

[[!tag "Clients"]]
[[!tag "Open_Source"]]
[[!tag "Software‏‎"]]
3.1: [Libbitcoin network refactoring](https://lists.dyne.org/lurker/message/20141201.054416.c146b7bc.en.html)  
3.2: [Libbitcoin roadmap summary](https://lists.dyne.org/lurker/message/20140924.201619.e3930350.en.html)
