[[!template id=infobox_company  type       =" [[Private company" Private]] ="Private]] "  name =" Magnr "  trading_name =" Magnr "  industry="[[Trade "  FX Trading]], Savings, Investments, Financial Services =" FX Trading]], Savings, Investments, Financial Services "  location =" [[London]] "  foundation =" January, 2014 "  key_people =" Joseph Lee, James Turner, Colin Kwan, Sergio Rodriguez, Kwok Man "  area_served      =" Worldwide "  pairs=" USD/BTC "  website=https://magnr.com]]

**Magnr** is a multinational company that engages in [[bitcoin]] trading, savings and investment for digital currencies. The company operates across two verticals offering a [[bitcoin]] leveraged trading platform for retail traders and a bitcoin interest bearing savings account. (1.1) It was founded in 2015 and is headquartered in London's Silicon Roundabout, the origin of its trading platform dates back to 2013 when the company operated as [[Btc.sx]]. At the time ZDNet reported Btc.sx to be one of the first bitcoin companies that voided the necessity of all other currencies other than Bitcoin. (1.2) The company was launched from Old Street, [[London]] and is run by CEO Colin Kwan a former Deutsche Bank VP. The founding team includes veterans with experience from Barclays, eBay and Jaguar Land Rover they are Joseph Lee, James Turner, Sergio Rodriguez and Kwok Man. (1.3)

##Saving
###How it works

The Bitcoin deposited at Magnr is used to fund leveraged trades at Magnr Trading. The traders pay an interest rate to execute leveraged trades, which is then passed back to Magnr savers.

After a fixed introductory rate, a variable interest rate will be used. This rate will vary according to trading activity on Magnr Trading.

###Rates and Information

* The current introductory Interest Rate is a fixed rate of 2.18% annual equivalent with interest payments made at the end of every month<br>
* After the introductory period, interest will be earned on a variable rate<br>
* Interest accrued compounds on a monthly basis<br>
* The maximum amount you can earn interest on is 100 bitcoins<br>
* You can deposit more than 100 bitcoins for safe storage, however interest will only be paid on 100 bitcoins<br>
* Withdrawals can be made at anytime, interest is earned on the balance held on your account

##Trading
###Buying and selling

Users of Magnr Trading can open long and short positions using the proprietary trading platform. A corresponding buy and sell order is then placed out to market at a matching exchange with or without leverage. All positions opened will have a corresponding position placed out to market meaning that any profits gained or losses generated from market movements will be passed on directly to the client.

###Position Deposits

Trading at Magnr is done on a pre-paid basis. In order to open a position, a deposit is taken which acts as collateral. This collateral will act as an equivalent of a margin call. This is the price at which a position will be automatically liquidated if losses accrue to the deposited amount. The margin call is shown as a stop price when the position is opened. A larger deposit will enable a bigger stop distance to be chosen. This can result in larger losses if the price moves against the desired direction.

###Features
Leverage - 10:1, 5:1, 2:1<br>
Volatility Multiplier - 10% ~ 20%<br>
Execution Type - at best execution<br>
Minimum Trade Size - $5 equates to ~$50 Trade at 10:1<br>
Maximum Trade Size - $1000 equates to ~$10,000 Trade at 10:1 (8.1)

##Fees

###Transaction Fees

####BTC

Deposit - zero fees (minimum of 0.001 Btc)<br>
Withdrawal - zero fees (minimum of 0.001 Btc)

Funds are deposited once 3 [[confirmations|confirmation]] are recieved, this is a process that typically takes 30 minutes.

####USD

Magnr does not accept fiat. All positions deposits are in Bitcoin.

###Trade Fees

Open and Close - 0.5%<br>
Gap Losses - zero

##Risk Matrix

As well as magnifying trading gains, losses can similarly be multiplied. For beginners, it is widely reccomended that trading with a smaller amount of leverage will result in a lower risk whilst learning about the platform while trading. Despite its higher minimum deposit, potential losses will be minimised due to the unlikely nature that a stop limit will be reached. (14.1)



|Leverage |Stop Distance |Risk |Return (Profit or Loss) |Minimum Deposit
|---
|10:1 |Small |High |High |$5
|5:1 |Medium |Medium |Medium |$10
|2:1 |Large |Low |Low |$20


##Reception

Following the [[Mt._Gox]] collapse, Btc.sx announced a new exchange partnerships with [[Bitstamp]], [[itBit]] and [[BitFinex]] now placing its orders out to market. The trading platform announced in March 2014 the brokerage of over $40m in brokered transactions. (15.1)

##Capital investments

In April 2014, Btc.sx recieved 500 bitcoins from the seed accelerator, [[SeedCoin]] in its first fund raising round. (16.1) The company has recieved a total of US$0.45 million investment as a result of initial capital injections and its equity fundraising activities. (16.2)

##External links

* [Official Website: Magnr - Bitcoin Trading, Savings and Investments](https://magnr.com)

##References

1.1: [Magnr Launches World's First Blockchain Based Bitcoin Savings Accounts](http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/magnr-launches-worlds-first-blockchain-based-bitcoin-savings-accounts---latest-btcsx-product-300100853.html) 2015-06-17 Josh Blatchford Work: PR Newswire  
1.2: [Startup opens Bitcoin-only margin trading platform](http://www.zdnet.com/startup-opens-bitcoin-only-margin-trading-platform-7000019715/) 2013-08-22 Michael Lee Work: ZDNet  
1.3: [Meet the founding team behind Magnr](https://magnr.com/meet-the-team) Magnr  
8.1: [Magnr - Trading Fee Schedule](https://support.magnr.com/hc/en-gb/categories/200125922-TRADING-FEES)  
14.1: [Btc.sx - What is Leveraged Trading?](https://support.btc.sx/hc/en-gb/articles/201070362-What-is-Leveraged-Trading-)  
15.1: [CoinDesk - Bitcoin Derivatives Platform BTC.SX Resumes Trading After Mt Gox-Induced Freeze](http://www.coindesk.com/btc-sx-resumes-trading-mt-gox-induced-freeze/)  
16.1: [CoinDesk - Trading Site BTC.SX Receives 500 Bitcoins in Seedcoin Funding Round](http://www.coindesk.com/seedcoin-gives-btc-sx-500-bitcoins-funding/)  
16.2: [ZDNet - Startup opens Bitcoin-only margin trading platform](http://www.zdnet.com/startup-opens-bitcoin-only-margin-trading-platform-7000019715/)


[[!tag "Trading"]]
