**McxNOW** is a digital currency exchange allowing trading of bitcoin and altcoin digital currencies.

The site will be going into a maintenance period beginning November 15 2014, which according to the site operator will take several weeks and destroy any coins that are not withdrawn by that date. Wallet data will also be deleted (1.1).

##Features

* Written entirely in C++ for speed and response. (2.1).
* No internet access to database for security.
* 25% of all mcxNOW exchange fees go towards paying interest on deposits every 6 hours. No trading is required to earn interest payments (2.2).

###Trading

####Fixed-point integer math trading engine
mcxNOW uses integers through the entire trade pipeline to ensure you aren't losing out and get precise results.

####Anonymous Trading
No personal identification required.

####Currency pairs

* BTC/[[LTC]]
* BTC/MNV
* BTC/[[DVC]]
* BTC/WDC
* BTC/CL
* BTC/XPM
* BTC/SC
* BTC/PPC
* BTC/FTC

####Trading Fees
There is a 0.2% fee for each side of every trade, so 0.2% for the buyer (BTC fee) and 0.2% for the seller (altcoin fee).


###Deposits
####Deposit Fees
There are no fees on bitcoin or alt-coin deposits.
####Deposit Options
You may deposit any of the following:

* Bitcoin
* [[Litecoin]]
* PrimeCoin
* PeerCoin
* Feathercoin
* MinCoin
* SolidCoin
* [[Devcoin]]
* WorldCoin
* CopperLark

###Withdraws
####Withdraw Options and Fees

* Bitcoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.001BTC)
* Litecoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.02LTC)
* PrimeCoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.1MNC)
* PeerCoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.1PPC)
* Feathercoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.1FTC)
* MinCoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.1MNC)
* SolidCoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.4SC)
* Devcoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 50.0DVC)
* WorldCoin  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.4WDC)
* CopperLark  (Withdrawal Fee: 0.4CL)


##References

1.1: [mcxNOW Exchange](https://mcxnow.com)  
2.1: [mcxNOW Exchange](https://mcxnow.com)  
2.2: [mcxNOW Exchange Features and FAQ](https://mcxnow.com/features.html)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
