a "cash top-up card". Once you purchase it at a participating retailer with cash, you can use it to reload prepaid cards, add money to a [[PayPal]] account without using a bank account, or make same-day payments to major companies.

MoneyPak is popular with traders on the [[#bitcoin-otc|Bitcoin-otc]] marketplace as a method for sending funds that are seen as safe for use as a method to receive payment.  When added to a PayPal account, the funds are available immediately and the MoneyPak website claims that transactions cannot be reversed.

PayPal allows up to $250 per year for funding a PayPal account.  The limit can be raised to $2,000 per-month by providing additional information regarding your identity and successful review by PayPal.

PayPal's terms of service do not allow funds added by MoneyPak to be withdrawn and sent to the account holder's bank account.  PayPal's intention is that those funds added will be used for sending money to a merchant or to another PayPal member.

Any amount from $20 to $500 may be added to a MoneyPak at most retailers. At Walmart, up to $1,100 may be added.  The money is usually immediately available on your MoneyPak. The exceptions include: Walgreens (60 minute funding delay), Radio Shack (30 minute funding delay) and Longs Drugs (15 minute funding delay).

MoneyPak is provided by Green Dot Corporation which is a licensed money transmitter.

##Fees

A MoneyPak costs $4.95 (or less) at retailers.  The card is not "reloadable".

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]
* [[Secure_Trading]]
* [[PayPal]]

##External Links

* [MoneyPak](http://www.moneypak.com) web site
* [MoneyPak store locator](http://www.moneypak.com/StoreLocator.aspx)

[[!tag "Money_transmitters"]]
