##Functional

###User

* sign up with e-mail activation and TOS acceptance
* sign in / out
* password reset
	* reset link valid for 24h or one use whatever comes first

###Settings

* change password
* change email
* configure two factor authentication
* on/off API
* reset API key
* configure email notifications (TODO: details)
* complete account removal (privacy feature, TODO: is it viable? what about left funds and common history?)
* all changes require second method authentication (email confirmation or OTP)

###Dashboard

* change market; market is a pair of currencies, i.e. USD/BTC, PLN/BTC

####Order book

* live chart
* live table

####Last trades

* live chart
* live table

###Account

* Balances for the current market
* History
	* every balance change must have a corresponding transaction
* Open orders
	* cancel order

###Deposit

####Bitcoins

* generation of personal input address
	* internal maintenance of user input addresses (every user has a list of input addresses)
* displaying address and instructions to the user
	* funding user balance with incoming bitcoins
		* create entry in account history, remember bitcoin tx id

####Fiat

* internal (LAN-only) API for custom scripts to bump fiat balance
	* create entry in account history, remember fiat tx id

###Withdraw

####Bitcoins

* edit bitcoin output address
* confirm with e-mail link or Google Authenticator OTP
* displaying form to send bitcoins
	* amount
	* instructions and fee information
	* send button with summary and confirmation
* mechanism to actually send bitcoins
	* create entry in account history, remember bitcoin tx id

####Fiat

* edit bank account details
* confirm with e-mail link or Google Authenticator OTP
* display form to send fiat
	* amount
	* instructions
	* send button with summary and confirmation
* add FiatWithdrawal entry to the list of pending fiat withdrawal requests
	* publish pending fiat withdrawals in internal API
	* accept request to mark specific FiatWithdrawal as fulfilled
		* create entry in account history, remember fiat tx id(?)


###Buy/Sell

* Display "Please be aware this is only approximation. Order book can change every second."
* Validate order value denominated in fiat is high enough
	* This is to prevent order and transaction spam/DOS

####Buy bitcoins

* Instant buy
	* "I want to buy [[____]] BTC instantly."
	* "You will spend about ____ USD and receive ____ BTC after fee. Average BTC price will be about ____ USD." 
	* Technically equals to submitting buy order with infinite price.
* Buy with price limit
	* "I want to buy [[____]] BTC at price [[____]] USD/BTC."
	* "You will spend about ____ USD and receive ____ BTC after fee. Average BTC price will be about ____ USD."
	* "You need at least ____ USD at hand to submit this order."
	* Validate user has enough funds to submit the order (assuming worst case scenario)
	* Block funds
	* Match with existing orders
	* Smart defaults: max BTC user can buy, market price

####Sell bitcoins

* Instant sell
	* "I want to sell [[____]] BTC instantly."
	* "You will receive about ____ USD after fee. Average BTC price will be about ____ USD."
	* Technically equals to submitting sell order with 0 price.
* Sell with price limit
	* "I want to sell [[____]] BTC at price [[____]] USD/BTC."
	* "You will receive about ____ USD after fee. Average BTC price will be about ____ USD."
	* Validate user has enough funds to submit the order
	* Block funds
	* Match with existing orders
	* Smart defaults: all BTC, market price

###Fees
####Transaction fee
Percentage and minimum fee denominated in fiat, like 0.6% min 0.01 USD. Taken from both sides of transaction from the output amount.
####Bitcoin withdrawal fee
Percentage and minimum fee denominated in bitcoin, like 0% min 0.0005 BTC.
####Fiat withdrawal fee
Percentage and minimum fee denominated in fiat, like 0% min 2 USD.

###Public API
####Ticker
TODO: design
####Trades
As explained on [bitcoincharts](http://bitcoincharts.com/about/exchanges/).
####Order Book
As explained on [bitcoincharts](http://bitcoincharts.com/about/exchanges/).

###Admin panel
####Dashboard

* To be decided what goes on a dashboard
####Financial

* Total funds on the exchange
	* Total funds accumulated on the exchange for each fiat (calculated from a database)
	* Total funds accumulated on the exchange for each cryptocurrency (calculated from a database)
* Number of buy and sell orders
* Number and volume of transactions

####How wallets

* Number and percentage of funds in a hot wallet (actual value taken from a bitcoind) for each cryptocurrency

####Users

* Total number of registered users
* Export emails.csv (i.e. for mass mailing via external software)
* Generate comprehensive report users.csv
	* designed to be open in a spreadsheat (Excel, Calc, etc.)
	* one user per line, fields:
		* e-mail **hash**, total balance BTC, total balance USD, ..., paid fees, number of transactions, transaction volume, sing-up date, sing-up IP, last sign-in date, last sign-in IP, number of sign-ins, number of open orders
* Search user by e-mail, username, name, or e-mail hash (to look up users from the report)
	* View user details
	* Deactivate / Activate
	* Impersonate

####Performance

* Hot
	* Number of users online 
	* Number of transactions in last minute
	* Job queue length
	* Pending fiat withdrawals (number, volume and the longest waiting)
* Historical
	* Number of transactions per hour chart (TODO: necessary in v1.0?)
* Settings
	* Min. order value denominated in primary currency for each market (i.e. denominated in USD for USD/BTC market)
	* Limit of requests per minute for signed-in user

####Security

* Shutdown the service
* Rollback to the point in time (TODO: define details)
	* "Rollback wreaks havoc, causes some users and exchange to loose money and can be illegal in your jurisdiction. Rollback is irreversible.  Rollback is a bad idea 99.999% of the time. Proceed only if you fully understand the consequences!!!"
	* Rollback should not be available through the web app, only as a command line tool

##Non functional
###Supported browsers
Prime example fronted is tested on the latest versions of:

* Chrome
* Firefox
* Internet Explorer 9
* Opera

There is nothing that prevents you from creating a Prime fronted that supports older browsers (see design).

###Correct use of HTTP protocol

* Semantic use of HTTP methods GET, POST, PATCH, DELETE
* Correct HTTP status codes

###Take advantage of HTML5

* Use HTML5 to the full extent possible
* Aim at HTML5 validity

###Performance

* Limit requests per minute for signed in user
	* Further requests will be rejected
	* Does not insert logs into database. Works buy incrementing user request_counter in scope of minute stored in request_counter_at. When current minute is larger than request_counter_at, it zeroes out request_counter and sets request_counter_at to the current minute.

##Limitation of v1.0

* While Prime is designed from ground up to support multiple cryptocurrencies, the first version will deliver integration with bitcoin only.
* No support for multiple hot and cold wallets. Only one pair of hot/cold wallet will be supported.

##Open questions

* Checking whether actual crypto and fiat balances cover values from a database (prevent fractional reserve)? How to do it correctly (i.e. delays in transfers, etc)?
