These changes are considered to be against the spirit of Bitcoin. Even if *all* Bitcoin users decide to adopt any of these changes, the resulting cryptocurrency can no longer be considered "Bitcoin" because it has diverged too much from the original design.

### Require unanimous consent

These changes require the consent of every bitcoin-holder:

* Increasing the total number of issued bitcoins beyond 21 million. Precision may be increased, but proportions must be unchanged.
* Any rule that adds required, explicit centralization. For example, a change requiring that all blocks be signed by some central organization.
* [Demurrage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demurrage_(currency)) (deletion or reassignment of coins judged to be "lost" or "unused").  This is highly controversial in the context of currency units; on the other hand it is absolutely essential for namespace entries like [[Namecoin]] (which implements Demurrage for namespace entries but not for currency units).

### Require miner consensus

* Changing the bitcoin distribution algorithm such that the subsidy at any given time period is decreased without miner consensus and 3 years notice, or increased beyond improved precision of halving (lossy beginning with block 1,890,000).

### Disputed

* Adding alternatives to [[Proof_of_Work]] such as [[Proof_of_Stake]]. This could change core bitcoin too much, but with widespread agreement of some sort might be possible.

## See Also
[[Hardfork_Wishlist]] for hard forks that might happen and still be called "Bitcoin".
