There are two variations of the original bitcoin program available; one with a graphical user interface (usually referred to as just “Bitcoin”), and a 'headless' version (called [[bitcoind]]). They are completely compatible with each other, and take the same command-line arguments, read the same configuration file, and read and write the same data files. You can run one copy of either Bitcoin or bitcoind on your system at a time (if you accidently try to launch another, the copy will let you know that Bitcoin or bitcoind is already running and will exit).

__TOC__

##Linux Quickstart

The simplest way to start from scratch with the command line client, automatically syncing blockchain and creating a wallet, is to just run this command (without arguments) from the directory containing your bitcoind binary:

	./bitcoind

To run with the standard GUI interface:

	./bitcoin-qt

##Command-line arguments

Give Bitcoin (or bitcoind) the -? or –-help argument and it will print out a list of the most commonly used command-line arguments and then exit:

Usage:
	bitcoin-qt [options](command-line)                     

Options:
	-?                     This help message
	-conf=<file>           Specify configuration file (default: bitcoin.conf)
	-datadir=<dir>         Specify data directory
	-testnet               Use the test network
	-pid=<file>            Specify pid file (default: bitcoind.pid)
	-gen                   Generate coins (default: 0)
	-dbcache=<n>           Set database cache size in megabytes (4 to 4096, default: 100)
	-timeout=<n>           Specify connection timeout in milliseconds (default: 5000)
	-proxy=<ip:port>       Connect through SOCKS proxy
	-socks=<n>             Select SOCKS version for -proxy (4 or 5, default: 5)
	-onion=<ip:port>       Use separate SOCKS5 proxy to reach peers via Tor hidden services (default: -proxy)
	-dns                   Allow DNS lookups for -addnode, -seednode and -connect
	-port=<port>           Listen for connections on <port> (default: 8333 or testnet: 18333)
	-maxconnections=<n>    Maintain at most <n> connections to peers (default: 125)
	-addnode=<ip>          Add a node to connect to and attempt to keep the connection open
	-connect=<ip>          Connect only to the specified node(s)
	-seednode=<ip>         Connect to a node to retrieve peer addresses, and disconnect
	-externalip=<ip>       Specify your own public address
	-onlynet=<net>         Only connect to nodes in network <net> (IPv4, IPv6 or Tor)
	-discover              Discover own IP address (default: 1 when listening and no -externalip)
	-checkpoints           Only accept block chain matching built-in checkpoints (default: 1)
	-listen                Accept connections from outside (default: 1 if no -proxy or -connect)
	-bind=<addr>           Bind to given address and always listen on it. Use [[host]]:port notation for IPv6
	-dnsseed               Find peers using DNS lookup (default: 1 unless -connect)
	-banscore=<n>          Threshold for disconnecting misbehaving peers (default: 100)
	-bantime=<n>           Number of seconds to keep misbehaving peers from reconnecting (default: 86400)
	-maxreceivebuffer=<n>  Maximum per-connection receive buffer, <n>*1000 bytes (default: 5000)
	-maxsendbuffer=<n>     Maximum per-connection send buffer, <n>*1000 bytes (default: 1000)
	-upnp                  Use UPnP to map the listening port (default: 1 when listening)
	-debug=<category>      Output debugging information (default: 0, supplying <category> is optional)
	If <category> is not supplied, output all debugging information.
	<category> can be: addrman, alert, coindb, db, lock, rand, rpc, selectcoins, mempool, net, qt.
	-logtimestamps         Prepend debug output with timestamp (default: 1)
	-shrinkdebugfile       Shrink debug.log file on client startup (default: 1 when no -debug)
	-printtoconsole        Send trace/debug info to console instead of debug.log file
	-regtest               Enter regression test mode, which uses a special chain in which blocks can be solved instantly.
	This is intended for regression testing tools and app development.
	-server                Accept command line and JSON-RPC commands
	-rpcuser=<user>        Username for JSON-RPC connections
	-rpcpassword=<pw>      Password for JSON-RPC connections
	-rpcport=<port>        Listen for JSON-RPC connections on <port> (default: 8332 or testnet: 18332)
	-rpcallowip=<ip>       Allow JSON-RPC connections from specified IP address
	-rpcthreads=<n>        Set the number of threads to service RPC calls (default: 4)
	-blocknotify=<cmd>     Execute command when the best block changes (%s in cmd is replaced by block hash)
	-alertnotify=<cmd>     Execute command when a relevant alert is received or we see a really long fork (%s in cmd is replaced by message)
	-keypool=<n>           Set key pool size to <n> (default: 100)
	-checkblocks=<n>       How many blocks to check at startup (default: 288, 0 = all)
	-checklevel=<n>        How thorough the block verification is (0-4, default: 3)
	-txindex               Maintain a full transaction index (default: 0)
	-loadblock=<file>      Imports blocks from external blk000??.dat file
	-reindex               Rebuild block chain index from current blk000??.dat files
	-par=<n>               Set the number of script verification threads (up to 16, 0 = auto, <0 = leave that many cores free, default: 0)

Wallet options:
	-disablewallet         Do not load the wallet and disable wallet RPC calls
	-paytxfee=<amt>        Fee per kB to add to transactions you send
	-rescan                Rescan the block chain for missing wallet transactions
	-zapwallettxes         Clear list of wallet transactions (diagnostic tool; implies -rescan)
	-salvagewallet         Attempt to recover private keys from a corrupt wallet.dat
	-upgradewallet         Upgrade wallet to latest format
	-wallet=<file>         Specify wallet file (within data directory)
	-walletnotify=<cmd>    Execute command when a wallet transaction changes (%s in cmd is replaced by TxID)
	-spendzeroconfchange   Spend unconfirmed change when sending transactions (default: 1)

Block creation options:
	-blockminsize=<n>      Set minimum block size in bytes (default: 0)
	-blockmaxsize=<n>      Set maximum block size in bytes (default: 750000)
	-blockprioritysize=<n> Set maximum size of high-priority/low-fee transactions in bytes (default: 50000)

SSL options: (see the Bitcoin Wiki for SSL setup instructions)
	-rpcssl                                  Use OpenSSL (https) for JSON-RPC connections
	-rpcsslcertificatechainfile=<file.cert>  Server certificate file (default: server.cert)
	-rpcsslprivatekeyfile=<file.pem>         Server private key (default: server.pem)
	-rpcsslciphers=<ciphers>                 Acceptable ciphers (default: TLSv1.2+HIGH:TLSv1+HIGH:!SSLv2:!aNULL:!eNULL:!3DES:@STRENGTH)

UI options:
	-lang=<lang>           Set language, for example "de_DE" (default: system locale)
	-min                   Start minimized
	-splash                Show splash screen on startup (default: 1)
	-choosedatadir         Choose data directory on startup (default: 0)

Many of the boolean options can also be set to off by specifying them with a "no" prefix: e.g. -nodnseed.

##Bitcoin.conf Configuration File
All command-line options (except for -datadir and -conf) may be specified in a configuration file, and all configuration file options may also be specified on the command line. Command-line options override values set in the configuration file.

The configuration file is a list of setting=value pairs, one per line, with optional comments starting with the '#' character.

The configuration file is not automatically created; you can create it using your favorite plain-text editor. By default, Bitcoin (or bitcoind) will look for a file named 'bitcoin.conf' in the bitcoin [[data_directory]], but both the data directory and the configuration file path may be changed using the -datadir and -conf command-line arguments.


|Windows|%APPDATA%\Bitcoin\|(XP) C:\Documents and Settings\username\Application Data\Bitcoin\bitcoin.conf(Vista, 7) C:\Users\username\AppData\Roaming\Bitcoin\bitcoin.conf
|Linux|$HOME/.bitcoin/|/home/username/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
|Mac OSX|$HOME/Library/Application Support/Bitcoin/|/Users/username/Library/Application Support/Bitcoin/bitcoin.conf


Note: if running Bitcoin in testnet mode, the sub-folder "testnet" will be appended to the data directory automatically.

##Sample Bitcoin.conf
Here is a sample bitcoin.conf file.

	# bitcoin.conf configuration file. Lines beginning with # are comments.
	
	
	# Network-related settings:
	
	# Run on the test network instead of the real bitcoin network.
	#testnet=0
	
	# Connect via a socks4 proxy
	#proxy=127.0.0.1:9050
	
	##############################################################
	##            Quick Primer on addnode vs connect            ##
	##  Let's say for instance you use addnode=4.2.2.4          ##
	##  addnode will connect you to and tell you about the      ##
	##    nodes connected to 4.2.2.4.  In addition it will tell ##
	##    the other nodes connected to it that you exist so     ##
	##    they can connect to you.                              ##
	##  connect will not do the above when you 'connect' to it. ##
	##    It will *only* connect you to 4.2.2.4 and no one else.##
	##                                                          ##
	##  So if you're behind a firewall, or have other problems  ##
	##  finding nodes, add some using 'addnode'.                ##
	##                                                          ##
	##  If you want to stay private, use 'connect' to only      ##
	##  connect to "trusted" nodes.                             ##
	##                                                          ##
	##  If you run multiple nodes on a LAN, there's no need for ##
	##  all of them to open lots of connections.  Instead       ##
	##  'connect' them all to one node that is port forwarded   ##
	##  and has lots of connections.                            ##
	##       Thanks goes to [[Noodle]] on Freenode.               ##
	##############################################################
	
	# Use as many addnode= settings as you like to connect to specific peers
	#addnode=69.164.218.197
	#addnode=10.0.0.2:8333
	
	# ... or use as many connect= settings as you like to connect ONLY
	# to specific peers:
	#connect=69.164.218.197
	#connect=10.0.0.1:8333
	
	
	# Maximum number of inbound+outbound connections.
	#maxconnections=
	
	
	# JSON-RPC options (for controlling a running Bitcoin/bitcoind process)
	
	# server=1 tells Bitcoin-QT to accept JSON-RPC commands.
	#server=0
	
	# You must set rpcuser and rpcpassword to secure the JSON-RPC api
	#rpcuser=Ulysseys
	#rpcpassword=YourSuperGreatPasswordNumber_DO_NOT_USE_THIS_OR_YOU_WILL_GET_ROBBED_385593
	
	# How many seconds bitcoin will wait for a complete RPC HTTP request.
	# after the HTTP connection is established. 
	#rpctimeout=30
	
	# By default, only RPC connections from localhost are allowed.  Specify
	# as many rpcallowip= settings as you like to allow connections from
	# other hosts (and you may use * as a wildcard character).
	# NOTE: opening up the RPC port to hosts outside your local
	# trusted network is NOT RECOMMENDED, because the rpcpassword
	# is transmitted over the network unencrypted.
	#rpcallowip=10.1.1.34
	#rpcallowip=192.168.1.*
	
	# Listen for RPC connections on this TCP port:
	#rpcport=8332
	
	# You can use Bitcoin or bitcoind to send commands to Bitcoin/bitcoind
	# running on another host using this option:
	#rpcconnect=127.0.0.1
	
	# Use Secure Sockets Layer (also known as TLS or HTTPS) to communicate
	# with Bitcoin -server or bitcoind
	#rpcssl=1
	
	# OpenSSL settings used when rpcssl=1
	#rpcsslciphers=TLSv1+HIGH:!SSLv2:!aNULL:!eNULL:!AH:!3DES:@STRENGTH
	#rpcsslcertificatechainfile=server.cert
	#rpcsslprivatekeyfile=server.pem
	
	
	# Miscellaneous options
	
	# Set gen=1 to attempt to generate bitcoins
	#gen=0
	
	# Pre-generate this many public/private key pairs, so wallet backups will be valid for
	# both prior transactions and several dozen future transactions.
	#keypool=100
	
	# Pay an optional transaction fee every time you send bitcoins.  Transactions with fees
	# are more likely than free transactions to be included in generated blocks, so may
	# be validated sooner.
	#paytxfee=0.00
	
	# Allow direct connections for the 'pay via IP address' feature.
	#allowreceivebyip=1
	
	# User interface options
	
	# Start Bitcoin minimized
	#min=1
	
	# Minimize to the system tray
	#minimizetotray=1

##Platforms
###Windows

####Start automatically
To configure the Bitcoin client to start automatically:

You might use the configuration-file, or the GUI-Settings:

Settings -> Options

then mark the checkbox titled:
	[[X]] Start Bitcoin on system startup

[[!template id=ns:file]][[:Client_Settings_Options_windows.png]]

####Batch automation
To work with batch, you have to start the daemon (bitcoind.exe). The bitcoin.exe run with option "-server" will respond with GUI-messages you are not able to process its answers.

###Mac
[[!template id=ns:file]][[:MacBitcoinStartOnLogin.png]]

###Linux
[[!template id=ns:file]][[:Client_Settings_Options.png]]

##See Also

* [[Data_directory]]

[[es:Ejecución de Bitcoin]]

[[!tag "Technical"]]
[[!tag "Developer"]]
