**Satoshi Nakamoto** is the pseudonymous person or group of people who designed and created the original [[Bitcoin]] software, currently known as [[Bitcoin-Qt]].

His involvement in the original [[Bitcoin]] software does not appear to extend past mid-2010.

##Identity

There are no records of Nakamoto's identity or identities prior to the creation of [[Bitcoin]]. On his [[P2P_foundation]] profile, Nakamoto claimed to be an individual male at the age of 37 and of [[Japanese]] origin, which was met with great skepticism due to his use of English and his Bitcoin [[software]] not being documented nor labeled in Japanese.

British formatting in his written work implies Nakamoto is of British origin. However, he also sometimes used American spelling, which may indicate that he was intentionally trying (but failed) to mask his writing style, or that he is more than one person.

The first release of his original [[Bitcoin]] software is speculated to be of a collabrative effort, leading some to claim that Satoshi Nakamoto was a collective pseudonym for a group of people.

##Work

Nakamoto has claimed that he has been working on Bitcoin since 2007. In 2008, he published a paper on The Cryptography Mailing List at metzdowd.com describing the Bitcoin digital currency. In 2009, he released the first [[Bitcoin]] software that launched the network and the first units of the Bitcoin [[currency]].

Version 0.1 was for Windows only and had no command-line interface. It was compiled using Microsoft Visual Studio. The code was elegant in some ways and inelegant in others. The code does not appear to have been written by either a total amateur or a professional programmer; some people speculate based on this that Satoshi was an academic with a lot of theoretical knowledge but not much programming experience. Version 0.1 was remarkably complete. If Satoshi truly only worked on it alone for two years, he must have spent a massive amount of time on the project.

Nakamoto was active in making modifications to the Bitcoin software and posting technical information on the [[Bitcoin_Forum]] until his contact with other Bitcoin developers and the community gradually began to fade in mid-2010. Until a few months before he left, almost all modifications to the source code were done by Satoshi -- he accepted contributions relatively rarely. Just before he left, he set up [[Gavin_Andresen]] as his successor by giving him access to the Bitcoin SourceForge project and a copy of the [[alert key|Alerts]].

##Motives

Nakamoto's work appears to be politically motivated, as quoted:

"Yes, [will not find a solution to political problems in cryptography,](we) but we can win a major battle in the arms race and gain a new territory of freedom for several years. Governments are good at cutting off the heads of a centrally controlled networks like Napster, but pure P2P networks like Gnutella and Tor seem to be holding their own." - Satoshi Nakamoto

"[is](Bitcoin) very attractive to the libertarian viewpoint if we can explain it properly. I'm better with code than with words though." - Satoshi Nakamoto

In the Bitcoin network's transaction database, the original entry has a note by Nakamoto that reads as:

"The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks"

Some claim this quote implies Nakamoto had great concern or contempt for the current [[central_banking]] system.

##Influence
The smallest unit of the [[Bitcoin]] currency (1/100,000,000) has been named "satoshi" in collective homage to his founding of [[Bitcoin]].

##References

* [Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System by Satoshi Nakamoto](http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf)
* [The Rise and Fall of Bitcoin](http://www.wired.com/magazine/2011/11/mf_bitcoin/)
* [The New Yorker’s Joshua Davis Attempts to Identify Bitcoin Creator Satoshi Nakamoto](http://betabeat.com/2011/10/did-the-new-yorkers-joshua-davis-nail-the-identity-of-bitcoin-creator-satoshi-nakamoto/)
* [The Crypto-Currency: Bitcoin and its mysterious inventor](http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2011/10/10/111010fa_fact_davis)
* [The Bitcoin Crypto-Currency Mystery Reopened](http://www.fastcompany.com/1785445/bitcoin-crypto-currency-mystery-reopened)
* [Satoshi's posts to Cryptography mailing list](http://www.mail-archive.com/search?l=cryptography@metzdowd.com&q=from:%22Satoshi+Nakamoto%22)


[[!tag "Pseudonyms"]]
[[de:Satoshi Nakamoto]]
[[es:Satoshi Nakamoto]]

[[!tag "Individuals"]]
