
**Moneybookers** is an e-commerce business allowing payments and money transfers to be made through the Internet. Moneybookers performs payment processing for websites, online auction sites, and other corporate users. Like many competing online fund transfer services (e.g., PayPal), Moneybookers requires identity verification before using their service to minimize fraud and prevent money laundering. Additional verification steps raise the maximum amount transferable to €50,000 or equivalent within a 90-day period. Moneybookers does not usually get involved in merchandise disputes and the availability of credit card chargebacks may be limited.

##Relation to Bitcoins
You can purchase Bitcoins on some exchange sites with Moneybookers. The service made it easier to transfer real money into exchange sites, and widthdraw money into your bank accounts. You can register for a MoneyBookers account and then transfer money in and out of it swiftly. Moneybookers has become one of the wider used Bitcoin payment methods, and has beaten Paypal to the function of buying Bitcoins through bank accounts.

##Clarification
Moneybookers is **not** a Bitcoin exchange site, nor does it transfer bitcoins for you. Moneybookers allows payments and real-world money transfers to be made over the internet, securely. Users use Moneybookers to transfer money to Bitcoin exchange sites in order to fund their purchase of Bitcoins.
##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Payment_methods]]

##External Links

* [Moneybookers.com](http://www.moneybookers.com)

[[!tag "Money_transmitters"]]
