> *This article is about the solo mining pool. For other uses, see [[Ckpool_(disambiguation)]].*


**solo.ckpool.org** is a solo mining pool implementation without the need to setup a local bitcoind.

solo.ckpool was started on the 31. August 2014  (1.1). For developers there is also a testnet implementation available.

Pool code created and operated by Con Kolivas, creator of [[cgminer]] and [[ckpool]].

## Servers to use

* [[Stratum]] - Use for ALL stratum capable Bitcoin mining software
	stratum+tcp://solo.ckpool.org:3333
Set your username to your btcaddress with any or even no worker extension, and any password.


* [[Testnet]]
	stratum+tcp://testnet.ckpool.org:3333
Note this is mining worthless testnet coins only! Also, you must be using a testnet bitcoin address on this edition.


##Reward distribution

* If you find a block, 99.5% of the 25BTC + transaction fees get generated directly at your bitcoin address.
* 0.5% goes to the operator to operate the pool and contribute to further ckpool code development.


For testnet:

* If you find a block, 100% of the testnet coins + transaction fees get generated directly at your bitcoin address.


##Extra features

* No overheads of running a full bitcoin node
* Connected to high speed low latency bitcoin nodes for rapid block change notification and propagation.
* No transaction-free blocks due to the ultra-scaleable code which has miners on both new blocks and transactions concurrently.
* No registration required, no payment schemes, no pool operator wallets
* The miner remains anonymous apart from his BTC address.

##How to run miners

**CGMiner [Forum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=28402.0)**<br />

cgminer -o stratum+tcp://solo.ckpool.org:3333 -u 1YOUROWNBITCOINADDRESS.0 -p x
If you enter an invalid address you will be rejected.

##See also

* [[Comparison_of_mining_pools]]
* [[Pooled_Mining]]

##External links

* [solo.ckpool](http://solo.ckpool.org/) web site
* [solo.ckpool testnet](http://testnet.ckpool.org/) web site

##References

1.1: [(∞ YH) solo.ckpool.org 0.5% fee anonymous solo bitcoin and free testnet mining!](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=763510.msg8604106#msg8604106)


[[!tag "Pool_Operators"]]
[[!template id=pools]]
[[!template id=lowercase]]
