##SpaceChain.io l The bitcoin mixing service you were looking for.

The way bitcoin transactions work causes them to be chained together in a permanent public record. They are traceable along the blockchain from one bitcoin address to another. Bitcoin mixer severs the links between your old address and a new address by sending coins from you to other people and coins from them to you. It also randomizes transaction amounts and adds time delays to the transactions. Generally there is no link between the original transactions and the final address of the coins. This process protects your privacy and prevents other people tracing your payments on the internet.

This is Official link <span style="color:blue;font-size:1.25em">**http://spacechain.io/**</span> 

SpaceChain.io :

* 0.5% of the total Bitcoin amount

* Anonymous Bitcoin Mixer

Our bitcoin mixing service does not require any account or personal information and doesn't collect any information about visitor's activity.

* Transparent Policy

We have large amount of pre-mixed bitcoins prepared for you! You can verify that your bitcoins have been properly anonymized via checking output address in a block explorer such as Blockr.io.

* Intuitive Interface

Our bitcoin mixing service is designed to be as intuitive as possible. The whole process of bitcoins anonymization should not take more than few minutes.



##Why to Choose Us? 

There is multiple mixing services on the web, however, our service is the most user friendly one. Main goal of SpaceChain.io is to provide secure and easy to use bitcoin mixing service for everybody.

Our service does not hide any details about our mixing algorithm. As a result of this policy you can always relay on the efficiency and security of the service. 

##External Links

* [ SpaceChain](http://spacechain.io/)
* [ Twitter](https://twitter.com/Space_chain/)
* [Bitcointalk.org](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1167153.0)
* Contact us  
spacechain@Safe-mail.net




[[!tag "Services"]]
[[!tag "Frontends"]]
[[!tag "Clients"]]
[[!tag "Mobile"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
[[!tag "HybridEWallets"]]
[[!tag "Mixing_Services"]]
[[!tag "Wallets"]]
[[!tag "Software"]]
