[SpectroCoin.com](https://SpectroCoin.com) is an European hosted web-based bitcoin web-wallet used for sending, receiving, and storing Bitcoins.  Managed by Lithuanian-UK comapny Spectro Finance Ltd. Users can buy and sell bitcoin via localized bank transfers in Europe and beyond.

The service presents itself as all in one solution for Bitcoin. SpectroCoin.com perceives Bitcoin as a protocol and its services as web-based client in a similar manner as webmail is a client for e-mail protocols.

##Buy and Sell Bitcoin

SpectroCoin acts as a liquidity provider for its clients, so Bitcoins can be bought or sold immediately. In addition to Bitcoin wallet clients can store their assets in Euros, which facilitates quicker trading and hedging facility.

##Deposits

Funds can be deposited through localized bank transfers in more than 26 countries, as well as via number of electronic wallets including CashU, WebMoney, EasyPay. Deposits are usually processed from 1 to 24 hours.

Bitcoin deposits are processed within 15-60 minutes.

##Withdrawals

SpectroCoin provides one of widest available bank wire deposit options in Europe. Usually, withdrawal is processed immediately and funds reach client's bank account within 2 hours (can take up to 2 days if international transfer is used). Other withdrawal options include number of electronic wallets including CashU, WebMoney and PayPal.

In 2015 SpectroCoin.com introduced debit cards which can be used to withdraw bitcoin holdings at ATMs around the globe and also used to pay at a number of shops.

##Merchants

In July, 2014 SpectroCoin became the first European company to offer payment acquisition services for eCommerce. In combination with strong financial infrastructure it can provide one of the quickest merchant solutions in the market.

SpectroCoin.com offers integration through API as well as plug-ins for major e-commerce platforms such as Drupal, OpenCart, WHMCS, Magento.

##Wallets

SpectroCoin.com offers mobile wallets for Android, iOS, Windows Phone. It can be used to pay not only where Bitcoin is accepted, but also at a number of restaurants in London and Baltic States.

##History

The alpha version was launched in July, 2013 and service worked as decentralized exchange.

During February, 2014 the wallet solution to hold funds in Bitcoins and Euros was introduced.

During July, 2014 the merchant solution allowing companies to acquire payments in Bitcoins was introduced.

##External Links

* [SpectroCoin.com](https://www.spectrocoin.com) website

##References



[[!tag "EWallets"]]
[[!tag "Wallets"]]
[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "Shopping_Cart_Interfaces"]]
[[!tag "Services"]]
[[!tag "Frontends"]]
[[!tag "Clients"]]
