**TradingView**

TradingView is a charting web service with historical and real-time Bitcoin data from MtGox, stock and futures data from major World exchanges (AMEX, CBOE, CBOT, CME, COMEX, NASDAQ, NYSE, TSX, TSX Venture, Eurex, NYMEX, ICE USA, ICE Canada, ICE Europe, KCBT, MGEX, NYSE LIFFE, MICEX, FORTS and BATS), as well as forex data. 

The service is built on HTML5 (this means no Flash, Java or Silverlight). So it will run just fine on a modern browser, no matter what Operating System you are using.



**History**

The service was created on (date) by programmers from MultiCharts. The service from the start provided data and charting for the major World exchanges. On June 2013 TradingView added Bitcoin data from MtGox for all instruments. 


**Charting tools**

•	*Chart types (with customizable resolutions):*

-	time based: bars, candles, hollow candles, Heiken Ashi, area and line (ranging from 1 minute to 1 month)

-	non-time based: Renko, Kagi, PnF and Price Break

•	*Scales*
-	standard
-	percentage
-	logarithmic

•	*Indicators (57)* ranging from (i) simple oscillators like Stochastic through (ii) geometrical indicators like Elliot wave to (ii) Correlation Coefficient allowing for a cross-currency analysis, e.g. BTCUSD vs EURUSD vs BTCCNY

•	*Drawing tools*
-	Line Tools
-	Gann Tools
-	Fibonacci Tools
-	Markers, arrows, balloons
-	Prediction tools
-	Shapes


**Social / community features**

•	*Publish Trading Ideas* - publish your analysis and insight for your followers, and read ideas published by others. Good trading ideas are featured in the TradingView gallery for all of our visitors. You can easily share any idea that you like further by sending it to Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or anywhere else. 

•	*Instant Chart Snapshot* - forget screenshots and image editors. One button takes an instant snapshot of your chart in PNG format and gives you a unique link that stays live forever. You can save the picture or paste it into chat, email, forum, document, blog, Twitter, Facebook, Skype or instant message.
In fast-moving markets the time you save with Instant Snapshot might make all the difference when sharing an idea! 

•	*Community Ideas on Your Chart* - popular instruments (like Google, EURUSD, BTCUSD) have hundreds of published ideas. Normally you’d have to open them separately to do research – not on TradingView!
Published ideas are displayed right on your chart as dots on the time when they were published. You can get a bird's eye view of different opinions over time and easily see who thought what and when (or turn it off if you prefer individual analysis). 

•	*Real-Time Conversation* - TradingView is much about reacting quickly to market changes, so the Conversation is a real-time chat for talking to other people while the moment lasts. You can instantly share Chart Snapshots and talk only to the people looking at the same stock, or message the entire community. 


**Features for institutional users / institutional solutions**

TradingView presents online financial software for use by your employees and/or customers. As a corporate client you can customize our charts and data to your company's requirements and cut your costs comparing to using other financial software. You can brand your own turnkey solution. With TradingView you get a fast technological and functional advantage over your competitors, which will help you win more clients. What we offer: 

•	*No installation and setup* - our charts have the quality of desktop applications without the difficulties in setup and installation. A simple user login is all that’s required – you can use them on any number corporate computers just by configuring your firewall. 

•	*Accessibility and cross-platform support* - in the corporate world, maintaining powerful hardware and compatibility across operating systems can be a nightmare. Our charts work on ANY operating system, on any computer and in any modern browser. No need for powerful computers - our servers do all the hard work on the backend, so you can minimize your hardware costs. 

•	*Scalability and Cloud Power* - TradingView has no limits on the number of users. Our servers are in the cloud, and extra processing power is automatically allocated when it’s needed. Setting up another user takes just one click. 

•	*Adding your custom content* - your employees/customers can use our default data, or we can connect any data or news feed that you need. We can customize the interface for you as part of the white label solution. 

•	*White label and customization* - do you want the solution to appear like your own? We can create your own version of TradingView according to your company's technological and branding requirements, and host it in a separate cloud. You get a solution that’s unique to your business and a weapon to beat your competitors. 

•	*Tough security and backup protection* - forget about losing data - latest security protocols make sure the data and content are safe on our servers. 


**Features for developers**

Through TradingView you can sell any content that will be interesting to the community through the TradingView Marketplace. Some examples, but there may be other possibilities: 

•	Indicators/strategies for technical analysis, or any studies that are displayed on the chart

•	News, or any other relevant feeds (i.e. economic events)

•	Market data subscriptions

•	Premium Ideas. You can mark some ideas as free to attract new followers, and some as paid to monetize your knowledge. Only your subscribers will be able to see your paid ideas


**External links**

https://www.tradingview.com/e/?symbol=MTGOX:BTCUSD#

http://www.multicharts.com/
