Launch Special: From June 29th until July 8th we will distribute 0,5 BTC through our Jackpot every day, irrespective of blocks found.

Although Triplemining.com is a new pool, and has not found any blocks yet, there are a number of good reasons to mine with us:

	Whatever your hash rate is, all current pools will give you more or less the same results. With Triplemining.com we offer you the possibility to triple your results by a clever minipool system. As soon as two of your friends (with equal or superior hash rate to yours) mine with us too, you increase your BTC mining income dramatically.

	With bitcoin mining, pool hash rate (= speed), mining difficulty and a little bit of luck play a central part. Big pools can be depressing, especially if your hash rate is not that great while too small pools with a streak of bad luck leave you with some kind of a stomachache.

	To counter this, Triplemining aims to bring together a medium-sized pool with no fees and clever redistribution of 1% of every found block to allow your share to grow more rapidly than on any other bitcoin mining pool.

	How do we achieve this?

	For every found block, we redistribute 1% of the profits to all minipool owners (people with 1 or more friends mining with them). The redistribution is connected to the shares found by your friends, not yours! So if the hash rate of your friends equals or is bigger than yours, your part in the redistribution will be equally bigger.

	For every found block we increase our jackpot by the 1% taken from people who are not part of someone else's mini-pool. Once per week the jackpot is paid-out, randomly connected to the find of a block, to one miner active at the moment of the find.

	By doing this Triplemining is virtually fee-free.

	If you're not convinced yet, let us add this to change your mind
	Statistically everyone has the same procential chance of finding a block, the only variable is time. Although time can be a psychological factor in considering what pool to mine with, the results are the same all over. A new pool is no different in that respect.

	With Triplemining.com however, we offer you a chance to virtually increase your hash rate with every friend you add to your minipool. In addition your bitcoin mining with us can be rewarded on a weekly basis with our jackpot. So in a way, the fact that we are small and new is an asset. If you are looking for better rewards and bigger share participation, Triplemining.com is the way to go.
