#Overview
This is just a simply summary page for now.

I built Wallet.Net because I had a specific set of features in mind for a frontend that I wanted. This is my attempt at fulfilling those requirements.

It's still very early in development, and so I would appreciate any help anyone can offer with testing. 
#Features

* Full Featured GUI
* Ability to view/sort/filter transactions
* A full address book capability
* Ability to use the "Accounts" feature of bitcoin
* Sending Money
	* Using memos/notes
	* Using address book
	* With variable optional fee
* A full "RPC Shell" as I call it, providing a commandline like interface to the bitcoin JSON-RPC API.
* Built-in SSH Functionality (not requiring outside SSH client or certificate app). That provides the following: (note SSH is disabled currently due to some bugs)
	* Secure Encrypted Tunnel to the remote bitcoin host
	* Uses an already trusted service (SSH), and the associated daemon, which are typically very secure.
	* Limits potential attack vectors since on the bitcoin host, only SSH need be exposed. Making it virtually invisible (bitcoin is undetectable) to a potential attacker.
	* Your authentication through the tunnel is done over the encrypted channel.
#Links

* [(1)](https://github.com/Glasswalker/Wallet.Net) - Git Hub Page
* [(2)](https://github.com/downloads/Glasswalker/Wallet.Net/Wallet_Net_Release_0.1_07022011.zip) - Current Beta Release (zip containing windows installer)
[[!tag "User_Interfaces"]]
[[!tag "Frontends"]]
[[!tag "Free_Software"]]
[[!tag "License/GPLv3"]]
[[!tag "Open_Source"]]
