A bitcoin [[currency_exchange]]/trading platform.

##Adding Funds

###USD

* A MtGox [[redeemable_code]] is the method for depositing USD funds.

###CAD

* Interac E-Transfer

###AUD

* Bank wire transfer (transfer must include reference message).

###BTC

* Bitcoins funds can be deposited at no charge.  

The BTC deposit address does not expire or change and later deposits to the same address can be made.

BTC funds deposited are available for trading after six confirmations.

##Withdrawing Funds

###BTC

* There is no fee for BTC withdrawal.

All withdrawals are sent through the Bitcoin network, regardless of whether or not the Bitcoin address is the deposit address for another BitMe account.

###USD

* A MtGox [[redeemable_code]] is the method for depositing USD funds.

###CAD

* Interac E-Transfer

###AUD

* Bank wire transfer


##Trading

Trades on the exchange incur a commission (fee).

##Security

Login and withdrawals can be protected with multi-factor authentication (also referred to as two-factor authentication or 2FA) using Google Authenticator.

##History

The exchange emerged from its limited (invite-only) operations on December 8, 2012 (14.1).

The exchange is operated in Australia by WeExchange Australia, Pty. Ltd and in the U.S. by WeExchange, Inc of Texas.

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [WeExchange.co](https://www.WeExchange.co) website

##References

14.1: [WeExchange](http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=85829.msg1385850#msg1385850)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "EWallets"]]
