This HOWTO is about hosting the wiki itself on a web-server under your control.

Preparation;

install ikiwiki;
	apt-get install ikiwiki libhighlight-perl libimage-magick-perl



Ikiwiki checks the upstream git repo while building (after every single
edit), to see if its up to date. For that reason you likely want to have a
double git setup so as to avoid any slowness due to a remote site not
giving answers fast.

Easy setup to avoid this is to have a local bare wiki that you manually
keep up-to-date with 'upstream'.

    # keep this one up-to-date manually
    git clone --mirror  https://github.com/BitcoinFactsWiki/english.git bitcoinfactswiki.git
    #this one you actually use for your website
    git clone bitcoinfactswiki.git

cp bitcoinfactswiki/bitcoin.setup mysite.setup

You want to edit your setup file.
Please consider changing these fields. I'm providing example values too;


* adminemail: tomz@freedommail.ch
* srcdir: /home/wiki/bitcoinfactswiki/pages/
* destdir: /var/www/btcwiki/html/
* cgi_wrapper: /var/www/btcwiki/html/ikiwiki.cgi
* url: http://hbdcxlms37r732tu.onion
* cgiurl: http://hbdcxlms37r732tu.onion/ikiwiki.cgi
* \# - editpage

The last one is a line to comment out or delete, in the default config the
<code>editpage</code> plugin is disabled. You may want to allow editing, if
so you should remove the line 'editpage' in the list if disabled plugins.

After that is done, be sure to actually generate your wiki the first time.

>  <code> ikiwiki --setup mysite.setup</code>


### webserver.

In NGINX make sure you have this in your site-settings (the file in
sites-available) to enable the cgi processing. This you need when allowing
users to edit;

	location ~ ^/ikiwiki.cgi {
	  fastcgi_split_path_info ^(ikiwiki.cgi)(/.+)$;
	  include fastcgi_params;
	  # Intercepting errors will cause CGI errors to appear in Nginx logs
	  fastcgi_intercept_errors on;
	  fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/fcgiwrap.socket;
	}

