A [[exchange|currency_exchange]] offering AUD (BTC/AUD) trading.

Traders add funds and then place orders to buy and sell.  World Bitcoin Exchange acts as an escrow.

Funds are credited after trading immediately to accounts wherein they can be withdrawn.

High Net Worth Property Pty Ltd owns the World Bitcoin Exchange, in association with Intersango Software, Intersango Software is open source software by  [[Bitcoin_Consultancy]] which operates Intersango EUR exchange well as the [[Britcoin]] GBP exchange and the Intersango.us USD exhange.

##Trading
###Buying

A buy order is executed partially or in full when the price bid can be matched against a sell order that is at or below the bid amount.

###Selling

A sell order is executed partially or in full when the price asked can be matched against a buy order that is at or above the ask amount.

###Dark Pool
No support for dark pools exist.

##Fees
###Trading

In order to pay for server space, bandwidth, programmers, designers, and other costs, World Bitcoin Exchange imposes fees on every transaction performed by all users of the website, as follows:

0.1% (capped at 0.025 BTC) when buying BTC

0.6% (capped at 0.25 AUD) when selling BTC

###Adding Funds

####BTC

There are no fees incurred when when transferring bitcoins for deposit.  Funds are available once [[confirmed|confirmation]] (4 confirms), a process that can take roughly an hour.

####AUD Mtgox Redeemable Voucher

The exchange charges a small fee for a direct deposit via MTGOX Voucher System (Automated). Details are available on site.

####AUD bank deposit

The exchange charges no fees for a direct bank deposit (EFT). Details are available on site and the user will need to quote a reference code from their account. No fees.

###Withdrawing Funds

####BTC
Bitcoins may be withdrawn at no charge.

####AUD bank withdrawal

The exchange charges no fees for a direct bank Withdraws (EFT). Details are available on site and the user will need to enter bank details to complete a withdraw request. No fees.

##API
Unknown.

##History

The service was launched on August 10th, 2011 (16.1).  The Intersango [[open source|tags/Open_Source]] software that the exchange runs on was announced on March 17, 2011 (16.2).

##See Also

* [[Buying_bitcoins]]
* [[Selling_bitcoins]]

##External Links

* [World Bitcoin Exchange](https://worldbitcoinexchange.com) AUD exchange website
* [Intersango](https://github.com/dooglus/intersango) exchange project on Github

##References

16.1: [ Australian Bitcoin exchange is now live](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=37079.0)  
16.2: [Free Bitcoin exchange software- Intersango](http://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=4579.0)


[[!tag "Exchanges"]]
[[!tag "eWallets"]]
