## Acknowledgements

Particular acknowledgements, as they have been very helpful stepping stones<br />

* [Operatr's list of questionable projects](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=176262.0)
* [xstr8guy's list of questionable projects](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=366659.0)
* [eldentyrell's Process-invariant hardware metric thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=119668.0)
* [[BitcoinTalk_Forum]] as the vast majority of information and discussion is held there.
[TheRealSteve](User:TheRealSteve) ([[talk|User_talk:TheRealSteve]]) 02:49, 12 April 2015 (UTC)

## Corrections / contributions

Feel free to make corrections and add listings, as long as you can provide some sources.  A lot of the data is based on (semi-)official information, leading to things like BitFury's first chip supposedly being much more energy efficient than their second chip, based on claims.  That's the sort of thing that should be near the top of things to address.

If you're not sure how the data is organized, just copy/paste from a listing that has what you need, or see [[Template:Asic]] for documentation of the template used.
[TheRealSteve](User:TheRealSteve) ([[talk|User_talk:TheRealSteve]]) 13:33, 13 April 2015 (UTC)

## Goal of this page

Can we consider moving this extensive list of ASICs to a new page? This page could simply describe the technology. We could move [[Mining_hardware_comparison]] to [[List_of_mining_hardware]]. Then if we wanted we could compile FPGA chips too, for historical completeness. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 17:52, 11 May 2015 (UTC)
