#### DDoS claims
[[User:Luke-Jr]] added an edit to this article calling it a DDoS attack [in this revision](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=SatoshiDice&oldid=32544). Since I found the edit opinionated and it had no citations to back the accusation, I edited it to a more neutral form [in this revision](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=SatoshiDice&oldid=33157). He later reverted my edit [in this revision](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=SatoshiDice&oldid=33337) without revising the article. Since I have no intention of waging an edit war, I would like to hear Luke-Jr's opinion on the issue before making any further edits. Bitcoin doesn't need any more drama at this point. --[Matoking](User:Matoking) ([[talk|User_talk:Matoking]]) 20:18, 5 December 2012 (GMT)

As to why I *don't* think SatoshiDice is a DDoS attack:

* SatoshiDice doesn't break any rules upheld by Bitcoin network since it pays transaction fees as seen in transactions such as [this](http://blockchain.info/tx/e774dbfad35e1bf5d9571f8d808b9a934130cc93c0ba2c6d70041c0fbb7f8fee) and [that one](http://blockchain.info/tx/d37cf4c63d6f4e1fc7fbce5f1f52447d514dc364bb13959aa6171be3635ae32f). More over, the transaction fees meet or exceed the minimum amount as described [[in this article|Transaction_fees]]. How can you claim SatoshiDice to be a DDoS attack when almost all of the miners deliberately include the transactions in their respective mined blocks since they don't "break" any rules?
* How SatoshiDice handles its bets and transactions is explained [here](http://satoshidice.com/bits.php) and the purported "transaction spam" is only a consequence of how the system works and how popular it has become, where the fault is more of poor design than malicious intent. The gamblers have knowledge of how the system works and just because it has become very active in terms of transaction throughput doesn't mean it has suddenly become a "DDoS attack" against the network. The same thing could be claimed about mixing services, which try to hide the transaction inputs' origins by shuffling them through multiple transactions, but since their effect on the size of blockchain is minimal at best, nobody seriously considers that they are malicious attacks.
* The reason why SatoshiDice works at the moment is because a lot of people legitimately use it for gambling and a lot of miners agree to include the created transactions in their blocks, since the inclusion of transaction fees make it viable. If most of people are okay with the service's existence, then why is it a DDoS attack? --[Matoking](User:Matoking) ([[talk|User_talk:Matoking]]) 09:59, 6 December 2012 (GMT)


* SatoshiDice *does* break Bitcoin network rules: particularly the rule against flooding with spam transactions. By design, Bitcoin intended to counter such spam by requiring minimal transaction fees for spammy-looking transactions, so that eventually such a spammer would run out of funds. SatoshiDice, however, uses novel social engineering to exploit gamblers and force them to cover the cost of bypassing Bitcoin's anti-spam rules (SatoshiDice itself does not pay the transaction fees, they are always paid out of the gambler's pocket).
* SatoshiDice is abusing the good will of the miners by flooding 2 transactions for every action a user/gambler makes. This would be the equivalent of 2 transactions for every item you take off the shelf at Walmart (or any other store). Not even big networks like VISA could probably handle this kind of abuse, so it is absurd to suggest Bitcoin in its early stage should or could. While the total transaction volume might be within reason for what Bitcoin must handle some day, when that volume is a *reasonable* amount of transactions, there will also be far more users/peers, developers, etc, and Bitcoin will scale better than it does today.
* As implemented today, Bitcoin clients do an extremely *poor* job of passing around transactions and (especially) blocks. SatoshiDice's transaction spam has on multiple occasions been the direct cause of many miners *losing* their hard-earned Bitcoin blocks. This can be improved with development time and scaling, but it isn't a trivial overnight rewrite and involves a lot of complicated code to get it right.
* Despite knowing how it violates Bitcoin rules and disrupts the network, SatoshiDice continues to intentionally abuse the network. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 12:27, 6 December 2012 (GMT)
