##Amount reduction

As the value of BC rose, I propose to reduce the amount.

0.01BTC is a day's salary in certain countries. And why are you waiting for 6 confirmations if this measure is really only a spam barrier?
21:15, 22 April 2013 (GMT)

>  This was made back when the price of BTC was in the low two digits. :) Yes payment amount could be reduced, but then you'd have to pay 0.0005 BTC fee for sending < 0.01. 
>  Also, 6 conf is required since this uses the MtGox payment processing API, which requires 6 conf. Not really worth it to special-case it. [Nanotube](User:Nanotube) ([[talk|User_talk:Nanotube]]) 13:47, 30 April 2013 (GMT)

>  To this day, the editing fee is worth 5€ or 5.5$. I already contacted MagicalTux, and posted on Bitcointalk.org (got flamed btw) while BTC was around $100, and I see that the problem is not yet answered. Thanks you MagicalTux for preventing this wiki to gain content and active users ! --[Twix](User:Twix) ([[talk|User_talk:Twix]]) 22:59, 19 November 2013 (GMT)

## Require payment for new user creation

I believe that a payment is required on each new user creation, not just in order to gain edit powers.
Currently a new spam user is created every few minutes, and the [Recent Changes](Special:RecentChanges) page has become completely spammed.

[Ripper234](User:Ripper234) ([[talk|User_talk:Ripper234]]) 10:54, 30 April 2013 (GMT)

>  Payment is only required to activate edit privileges, hence the flood of spam users.  but it's not a bad idea to have it be required for user creation too, to avoid that spam. The problem is that it'd require more development, and mtux doesn't really have time to do this for the wiki right now. 
>  In the meantime as a quick hack, you can just filter the recent changes list to exclude everything from the User namespace. [try this](https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?namespace=2&invert=1&title=Special%3ARecentChanges). It's not perfect, since it also excludes user page edits... but it's good. :) [Nanotube](User:Nanotube) ([[talk|User_talk:Nanotube]]) 13:44, 30 April 2013 (GMT)

## Informing new users

It's not very clear right now that people need to visit this page to learn how to contribute. I didn't find out until I was reading through some questions on StackExchange, saw somebody someone ask why he couldn't edit.

I know there's a line on the front page in font-size 10 saying "Anti-spam protection from BitcoinPayment", but people unfamliar with BitcoinPayment will not notice that. When they don't see an edit button they're likely to assume that you either need to wait for manual approval or that you need to know the right people within the community.

It's been ages since I tried to write code for MediaWiki, so I don't know if on of the following suggestions is possible:

* don't hide the edit link, but instead redirect the user to this page for instructions
* next to the "Show source" link, show "Want to contribute?"

Or this solution, which doesn't require code:

* put a text like "If you want to contribute, please read these instructions" in a very prominent place on the landing page.


>  You're completely right, I was thinking the same thing for a long time. I don't know how to implement it - I just asked it on [webapps Stackexchange](http://webapps.stackexchange.com/questions/44319/can-a-mediawiki-moderator-put-a-system-message-for-each-new-user). If you know of a good way to implement that without having access to the backened/php, let us know. [Ripper234](User:Ripper234) ([[talk|User_talk:Ripper234]]) 15:44, 17 May 2013 (GMT)

>  We have edited the "no permission" message to point to BitcoinPayment. Also note that the login screen has had the prominent orange banner mentioning the requirement for BitcoinPayment all this time, also. I suppose "ideally" any user who is not trusted should get a persistent banner in the header or something, but that requires editing on the backend. [Nanotube](User:Nanotube) ([[talk|User_talk:Nanotube]]) 03:47, 24 May 2013 (GMT)

>  Can we change "View Source" to "Edit" so new users actually get to the explanation screen? --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) ([[talk|User_talk:Luke-jr]]) 04:55, 25 May 2013 (GMT)
