## Warning notice
This entry may be undergoing [Edit warring](wikipedia:Wikipedia:Edit_warring).

The contention between myself ([[User:TheRealSteve]]) and the user [[User:BitHashMiner.com]] is with regard to a warning noting that there are some legitimacy concerns over the subject matter of the wiki entry.  Specifically, whether or not the described products are in fact (to become) available.

Discussion on two separate forums - BitcoinTalk and Reddit - point to this likely not being the case.  Specifically, the issue of pre-sales, acceptance of Bitcoin the only payment method, lack of specific information and history, and the use of a generic 3D render have been cited as problem areas.  For reference, these threads are located at https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=944406.0 and http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/2umgwg/bithashminer_10ths_bitcoin_miner/ respectively, and are referenced in the warning which reads:
	There are online discussions suggesting that this may be a scam.

( Disclaimer: I am party to the discussion on the BitcoinTalk forum. )

If more information is available about the hardware that would alleviate these concerns, I hope that BitHashMiner.com will add this to the wiki.

[TheRealSteve](User:TheRealSteve) ([[talk|User_talk:TheRealSteve]]) 01:18, 5 February 2015 (UTC)
> This is almost definitely a scam. If the page creator doesn't refute here by the time the protection expires, I'm deleting the page. [Taras](User:Taras) ([[talk|User_talk:Taras]]) 15:39, 5 February 2015 (UTC)
