#### Notability problem
I have problems with the term 'notable' in
	Only notable donation-accepting sites should be added here.
>  this excludes announcing *newly* developed services, which naturally don't have 'notability'.
A solution could be to create another page, or to divide this page into one section with notability and one without. The general problem with this term is, who decides, who has notability and who not?

My use-case is announcing
	[Roll Your Tasks (RYT)](http://www.evolgo.de/RYT/) A free browser based task management app for individuals and small groups. Bitcoin donations welcome.
I would like to have a good place for this announcement (Note: currently it is under [Trade->Productivity](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade#Productivity), but it has been deleted once with the justification, that it is not 'trade' in a tight sense).

[Hartrock](User:Hartrock) 15:04, 25 September 2011 (GMT)



Can I put link for donation (oviajor.com.br/?page_id=47) to Manoel Lima (respectable) Author from (O Viajor) Book?

Website of author/actor: manoellima.com.br
Website of book: oviajor.com.br

Youtube channel from Manoel Lima (book launch on great boostore)
youtube.com/watch?v=jPJIokp1IDc

Website from some stores that have the book:
Submarino biggest bookstore submarino.com.br/produto/1/21846267/viajor,+o
Americanas big bookstore americanas.com.br/produto/7177486/livros/literaturanacional/literaturanacional/livro-viajor-o


Thank you [[!template id=unsigned POPBitcoin 22:47, 26 June 2011]]

## Organizations that provide tax receipts

It would be nice if this page differentiated between organizations that could provide tax receipts and those that cannot. Perhaps a new column in the table would be the best way to do this. The could column list the countries in which the organizations can provide tax receipts. [[!template id=unsigned Malo 18:30, 6 December 2013‎]]

## Scam sites

The overwhelming majority of the entries in the Misc section (and a few above it) appear to be scams;
spot-checking a few shows most of them are organizations that don't appear to exist outside their one domain, that have no contact information or contact information that is clearly fake. Others appear to be just random spam for commercial sites, several of which don't even appear to accept Bitcoin at all.

In the interest of safety, I've commented out the entire Misc section. If someone has the time, please add 3rd-party sources for everything left,  look thru the commented-out sections for ones that may be legitimate, and remove anything that gets added without a source. I will do some of this if I get the time.

--[CoJaBo](User:CoJaBo) ([[talk|User_talk:CoJaBo]]) 03:46, 29 October 2014 (UTC)

## Unblock

Hi, I maintained this page, but now I don't seem to have edit privileges :-( I would like to add Wau holand foundation https://www.wauland.de/ --[Bytecoyn](User:Bytecoyn) ([[talk|User_talk:Bytecoyn]]) 07:39, 7 February 2015 (UTC)
