There already had been the [[Why_pooled_mining]] article though this article provides different information through a different presentation.

Should the original be merged into this one? - [Sgornick](User:Sgornick) 02:36, 24 May 2011 (GMT)

This article seems biased toward a) pooled mining and b) eligius. This would be fine on a page like Why Pooled Mining. But since this page indicates it has pros/cons of both, there should be pros/cons of both. As is, it almost sounds like a commercial for eligius. --[Hawks5999](User:Hawks5999) 19:04, 14 June 2011 (GMT)

Pooled mining is basically superior in every way nowadays, so there's not much one can do to avoid the "biased" feel. As for the Eligius bit, some other pool had a blatent advertisement in there, so I changed it to Eligius as a kind of "backfired!" expecting someone else to make it neutral fairly quick. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) 22:04, 14 June 2011 (GMT)

"Pooled mining is basically superior in every way nowadays" is called an opinion. And when the opinion is given by someone who runs a pool, it is *ipso facto* biased toward pool mining. There's no problem with a biased opinion - every opinion is a bias by definition. However, for this content it seems it should be more fact and less commentary... and definitely not advertising. But, if I were in your position, I'd likely do the same thing ;) --[Hawks5999](User:Hawks5999) 23:20, 14 June 2011 (GMT)

Not really an opinion when there's hard facts behind it. I can't think of any good reason someone would solo mine anymore. --[Luke-jr](User:Luke-jr) 20:58, 15 June 2011 (GMT)
